5: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about using Terraform from the perspective of automation environments. Now, when you look into the exam objective of the official Terraform professional certification. In fact, let's go a bit down now within here, if you look into point one A to one D, it is associated with Terraform init and its options plan, and its options ap
6: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss at an overview about the Terraform CLI commands and its options. Now generally, if you want to be good in Terraform, not only you should be able to write decent Terraform configuration, but you should also be aware about the various CLI commands and various sub options associated with those CLI commands, so that you are comfortable in runnin
7: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about the importance of setting input of False in your Terraform CLI command. Specifically when you are running it as part of the automation. So with this let's get started. Now the first important part that we need to remember is that for wide variety of use cases, if you have not really defined a value as part of your Terrafor
8: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into the importance of no color flag that you can add as part of many of the Terraform CLI commands. So let's go ahead and get started. Now the first point states that many of the Terraform CLI commands also have the hyphen no hyphen color flag that is available. So first let's go ahead and quickly look into the difference when you have this an
9: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about an important topic in Terraform which is plugin caching. This, again as we were discussing, is an important topic. And in many of the use cases, even in your local workstation, you might want to implement it and it has its own set of benefits. So let's go ahead and discuss about the challenges first post, which will be disc
10: Hi everyone and welcome back. So today is going to be the practical video where we are going to look into the implementation part associated with the plugin caching feature in Terraform. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing about the benefits that this specific feature provides. Now for today's practical video, we are going to consider two operating systems as part of practicals. One is going to be windows, s
11: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the explicit installation method configuration that you can achieve for the provider plugins using the File System Mirror feature. Now at this stage, we already know that whenever you run the Terraform init command, it connects to the registry.terraform.io by default and fetches the appropriate provider plugins for you. Now this is comp
12: Everyone. And welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to learn on how we can use the explicit installation method based on the file system mirror for getting the provider plugins. So this is going to be the practical video. Let's go ahead and get started. Now as we were discussing in the earlier video as well, where provider plugins can go ahead and it can be downloaded locally, and then you can reference to
13: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the basics of the static analysis tools. And we are also going to look into the options that we have for Terraform. Now at a very high level overview, the static code analysis is a verification activity in which your source code is verified against various parameters. It can be quality, reliability, security, and based on that you will 
14: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to explore about the installation step related to Chekhov. Now generally if you look into the official documentation here, there are multiple approaches for installation. However, if you try to directly run this command in the operating system like ubuntu, it will not really work. So there are some additional steps that are required. And within our GitH
15: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now at this stage we already have Checkov installed in our Linux system. And in today's video at a very high level overview. From a practical point of view, we are going to understand on how we can scan for our Terraform files using Checkov and some of the important options around that area. Now currently I am logged in to the server. Now the first thing that you need is a TF file. Now 
16: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to explore about saving Terraform plan to a file. Now one thing that we have to keep a note of is that Terraform allows us to save a plant to a file. Now, before we look into the advantages that this specific approach provides, let's look into the overall workflow to achieve this use case where if you run a command of Terraform plan with the output of E
17: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the code level scanning and plan level scanning. Now, whenever you are working in an organization, you will require both code scanning and plan scanning at different stages of the overall life cycle. So with this said, let's get started and understand the difference between both of them. Now at this stage, we are already aw
18: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss in detail about the importance of TFX in automation environment variable here. Now at this stage, one point that we need to keep a note of by default, whenever we run various commands like terraform init, it also gives us a lengthy output here with the appropriate description, which is much more easier for us to review. And it a
19: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about one of the very important features of Terraform, which is Terraform import. Now, in fact, this is the second time where we are rerecording this specific video, primarily because HashiCorp has recently introduced a major change that the entire community was waiting from past many years as part of the import functionality. So let's go ah
20: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing about the basics of the Terraform import functionality and also the exciting feature associated with automatic code generation. So in today's video, we are going to start with our practical where we are going to create a resource manually. And then we'll look into how the automatic code generation feature works and its associated configuratio
21: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the resource targeting in Terraform. Now let's assume that you have a folder of KP Labs Terraform. And there are multiple files that are present. Each file has its own set of resource definitions. So first we'll go ahead and create a server in AWS. Second we'll go ahead and create a local file. Third will create a new AWS user. Now in s
22: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the resource of random integer. Now at a high level overview, when you define the resource of random integer, there are two important arguments. One is minimum and second one is maximum. And the resource of random integer will generate random value from this specific given range that we were discussing. So if you look into the output, t
23: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about a resource targeting in a little more detail, specifically in the context of dependencies in Terraform. So let's go ahead and understand this now for today's video we have a very simple resource code where first resource is a random integer. So it generates a random integer between 1000 and 50,000. Second resource is a S3 
24: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss the basics of moved blocks. Now one important point that we have to keep a note of is that whenever you're working with Terraform and you have various long lived configuration, you might come across scenarios where you want to move an object, or you might want to rename a object. For example, if you look into the screenshot, you 
25: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about the escape sequence in the coded string. Now, whenever you are working with Terraform, coded string is something that you will be using quite extensively to provide the appropriate values. And what does the coded string mean? It simply means that it is a sequence of characters that are enclosed within the double quotes. So
26: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the higher docstrings in Terraform. Now note that this concept of your docstrings is not something which is very unique to Terraform. Even in other programming languages like Python, you have PHP and so on. Your docstrings are extensively used, so if you are from a development background, or even in Linux, your docstrings a
27: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the hair doc strings in more detail. Now the first important area that we need to understand is related to the components of the ear doc strings. So when you discuss about this, the first important component is the ear doc marker. So this part that you see which is two less than signs. This is an example of the ear doc mark
28: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now, whenever you understand the difference between a basic and the indented docstring, one of the primary difference is related to the leading whitespace and the overall preservation. So this is going to be the clarity video specifically related to the leading whitespace. So there is no room of confusion in the topic of your docstrings. So with this let's get started. First let's go ah
29: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about two important Terraform functions. First one is Jsonencode. Second one is JSON decode. So when I say important Terraform function it means important when you have JSON data. In such cases, these are the two important functions that you have to be aware of. And JSON is quite common for a wide variety of use cases. In fact, l
30: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and take few more examples specifically related to the JSON decode function to understand on how it really works. Now when we discuss about the JSON encode function, it is pretty straightforward where you supply some of the data structure based on Terraform, and it converts it to the appropriate JSON format. Sometimes for many of the use cas
31: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about data sources. Now one thing that needs to be remembered. Again, this is a very important topic. And whenever you are exploring the production level code, you will see that data sources is being used quite extensively. It basically allows you to make your code much more flexible and modular. So with this base set, let's go ahead and unde
32: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to explore the documentation references related to the data sources. Now if you remember in the earlier video, we were exploring various examples related to how data source can fetch certain information about a specific provider. For example, here we were reading information about a DigitalOcean account. Then we were reading information from a local fil
33: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore the overall format in which the data source has been defined and also what are the flexibility that we can add as part of our data source to make it more in tune with the use case that we want to achieve now, at this stage, we already understand the basic format in which a data source is defined, where you have a data followed by the name of
34: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to take up one of the very important use cases where data source is extensively used specifically, while you are creating a lot of servers using Terraform in production environment. And the use case is to fetch the latest operating system image using the data source. So let's go ahead and understand this with a requirement which states that you are res
35: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video we were looking into the disadvantage of hard coding the Army ID as part of your resource block. We also looked into the benefits of dynamic configuration, where your Terraform can fetch the latest Army ID from your provider, and it can be used as part of the EC2 resource block, and the overall setup can be achieved using the data sources. Now, in today's video,
36: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the input variable validation. Now before we discuss about this interesting feature, it is important for us to understand the challenge that everyone used to face before the feature was introduced, so that we can understand the benefit that it provides. Now in Terraform, many times you will observe that after you have written your CL co
37: Hi everyone, and welcome to the practical video associated with the input variable validation. So let's get started. Now the scenario that we will be considering as part of today's practical is something similar to the one that you see in screenshot, where we are going to have a variable of db underscore password now associated with a variable. There should be a input validation where it would check if the value asso
38: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss few more examples related to the input variable validation block so that we understand the overall flexibility. So in case if you would have to include it as part of your environment, then you should know what are the types of flexibility and what else can you add to ensure proper validation takes place for input variables. So the first examp
39: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about preconditions and postconditions. So first let's go ahead and start with preconditions. Now at a high level. Overview the preconditions in Terraform. They are custom conditions that you can set as part of the code. And these set of custom conditions, they are checked before evaluating the object they are associated with. So this can be 
40: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore few more examples related to preconditions and postconditions so that we understand the flexibility that we can achieve with these features. And it will also give us proper insights into what are the things that can be achieved. So the example number one is something similar to what you see in the screenshot. Now, generally only after readin
41: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about one of the relatively new feature in Terraform which is the check blocks. So let us go ahead and understand the basics on what check blocks allows us to do at an overview, a check block. It can validate the infrastructure that is outside the usual resource life cycle. Now, when we discuss about various other conditions like the input v
42: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about a sensitive parameter again a important topic from security perspective. So let's get started. Now one thing that we have to keep a note of. In fact, you might have also observed that whenever you run commands like terraform, plan or terraform apply, you will see that Terraform is showing you the values associated with the attributes as
43: Hey everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we will be having an overview about the HashiCorp vault. Now, HashiCorp vault allows organizations to securely store their secrets like tokens, passwords, certificates, along with a proper access management for protecting those secrets. Now, one of the common challenges that you will see nowadays in most of the organizations is related to the secrets management. S
44: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we will be discussing at a high level overview about the vault provider. Now in the earlier video we had a great high level overview about the HashiCorp vault product. Now, as we know that Terraform has hundreds of providers that allows it to integrate with various other services. One of the popular providers is vault. So let's go ahead and look more into it. So at
45: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, our main aim is to understand the basics of meta argument. However, before we do that, one of the prerequisite here is to also understand the basics of resource behaviour. Now at this stage we have been doing a lot of Terraform practicals and this is the reason why our understanding about resource behaviour is already good. But before we go ahead and proceed with t
46: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the life cycle meta argument. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing about the basics of meta argument and how it allows us to perform certain level of customization, and it also allows certain level of flexibility related to the default resource behavior in Terraform. Now, the example that we had taken was the life cycle meta arg
47: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about create Beforedestroy argument under the lifecycle block. Now before we go ahead and discuss about this argument in detail, it is important to understand one of the default behavior as part of the Terraform resource block. So by default, when Terraform must change a resource argument that cannot be updated in place due to the remote API 
48: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the prevent destroy argument that you can use as part of the life cycle block. Now, from the name itself, we can identify that this specific argument will allow us to tell Terraform to prevent any destruction of resource. For example, if you have this under the life cycle block of a resource, and when you try to destroy this resource th
49: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the ignore changes argument as part of the life cycle block. Now many a times in production environment, what happens is certain configuration of a EC2 instance or any other infrastructure object is modified by the process outside of Terraform. Now this can be any other automated solution. Sometimes there are manual changes that also ha
50: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the data type of list. Again, this is a very important data type and in a lot of arguments for resources list is one of the common data type that is required. So with this said let's go ahead and understand more about it. Now at a very high level overview list, data type allows us to store a collection of values for a single variable or
51: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the data type of map in Terraform. Now at a high level overview, the map data type represents a collection of key value pair elements. Now if you have explored the list data type. So list data type consists of collection of values. However map is quite similar but it contains the collection of key values. So let's understand this with a
52: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the data type of object. Now before we discuss about the object data type, it is important for us to revise the basics of the map data type because both of these are quite similar. Now, in a basic setup, we already know that map is a collection of key value pairs, and one of the areas where it is extensively used is for tagging in AWS. 
53: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about the functionality of nesting that you can add as part of the variable types. So let's go ahead and get started. Now again note that this is a very important video. Generally whenever in production environments you will see that you require a very highly structured configuration, specifically as part of variables. And in su
54: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to learn on how we can fetch the values from the nested variable types. Now as we were looking into the earlier videos as well, you can have multiple sets of very structured configuration that you can add as part of the variable using nesting of multiple data types. However, you will have to use the value associated with variable in some other places li
55: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the challenges associated with the count meta argument. Now whenever you are making use of count, for example, if you look into this screenshot, we are basically referencing to the variable of IAM names and we are using the count dot index. And in the IAM names we have three values that are part of this list. You have user zero one, use
56: Hi everyone and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the set data type. Now before we go ahead and understand about the set data type and the advantages that it offers, it is important for us to understand the basics of list data type along with the advantages and disadvantages. Now let's go ahead and quickly revise the basics of the list data type. At a high level overview. As we already 
57: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about an important topic which is the foreach meta argument. Now at this stage, we already know that by default whenever you configure a resource block, it is generally associated with one real infrastructure object. Now many times what happens in organization is you want to manage multiple set of similar objects as part of your infrastructur
58: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about conditional expressions. Now at a very high level overview the conditional expressions in Terraform. It allows you to choose between two values based on the condition. So this can be better explained with this specific diagram where you have a conditional expression here. Now this conditional expression will have few conditions. So if y
59: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss the basics of four expressions. Now again this is an important topic and in many organizations you will see code that makes use of four expression. So it is important for us to understand the basics. So in today's video we are going to look into the four expression at a high level overview so that we understand it from the basic 
60: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss the basic of the Terraform function of CSV decode. Now from the name itself we can identify what this function is allowing us to do which is to decode the CSV files. So before we go ahead and look into the practical aspect of this function, first let's revise the basics of the CSV files post, which will be looking into the CSV d
61: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about the four expressions in a little more detail so that we understand on how we can make use of it with wide variety of data types, and also some of the important flexibility and the important areas related to it. So let's go ahead and get started. Now in the earlier video, we already discussed the basics of for expression an
62: Hi everyone and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss on how we can create multiple resources based on the values that are defined in a CSV file. So this is going to be a very interesting video with a lot of learnings. So let's get started. Now the use case that we want to implement as part of today's video is very simple. Where you have a CSV file, and this CSV file contains detail
63: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the nested loops in for expression. Now at a very high level overview. Nested loop is a loop that is specified inside another loop. Now in this case we are discussing about four expression. So it is four expression that is defined inside one more for expression. So if you see in this screenshot you have two variables. And in the output 
64: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about two of the Terraform functions. One is flatten. Second one is distinct. So let's get started. Now the first terraform function is flatten and at a high level. Overview. The flatten function. It transforms a list of list or even a complex nested structure into a single flattened list. For example, if you look into the screenshot, you hav
65: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about an important feature in Terraform which is templates. Now one thing that we need to remember is that template is not some unique feature that is only associated with Terraform. In fact, you will see this feature in other tools as well, specifically Ansible. So in Ansible, templates are quite popular to achieve wide variety of use cases.
66: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about Template file in little more detail. And we are going to focus on the aspects on how you can use the template file while dealing with lists and maps. And we are also going to make use of how you can make use of for expression while creating templates. Now, before we do that, let us understand the base challenge here. Now ma
67: Hi everyone and welcome back. So today's video is going to be more of an exercise where we have some sample mock data that is available. And based on that data, we look into how we can retrieve values from the file by making use of the for expression. Now the sample data, which is based on JSON, is available for today's video. And it is also committed as part of the git repository. So you have to make sure that you d
68: Harry one and welcome back. Now in this specific video and also in the upcoming set of videos, we are going to look into how we can create resources based on the content of the CSV file data. And this is the exercise number one. Again we will have multiple set of exercises that covers different set of use cases. But the main aim that I wanted to ensure that we learn is that many a times you will see that in real worl
69: Hi everyone, and welcome to the exercise number two. Again, the main aim remains to be quite similar to the exercise number one. However, there is a small change in terms of the CSV file that you will see now in terms of change, the only change that is added here is the name. So in the exercise number one, each rule had a unique name. For example rule zero one. Rule zero two. Rule three. Rule four. However, this time
70: Hi everyone, and welcome to the exercise number three, where we are going to go ahead and create a resource based on the CSV file data. Now again the format is very similar to exercise one and two. However with a little change in the CSV file. So this time as part of exercise number three, we have to create only inbound security group rule using this specific resource type. Why? Because CSV file only has a direction 
71: Hadrian. And welcome to the exercise number four. Today again, we are going to look into how we can create the resources based on the data of external files. And for today's video, we are going to look into data, which is as part of the CSV file and some part of data which is part of the JSON file. So today's use case is also quite similar, where we have to go ahead and create inbound security group rules using the A
72: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about Terraform settings. Now at this stage we already know the basics about the provider block and how it allows us to specify certain level of configuration, like in which region you want to create the resource, some credentials, and so on. Now, although this sets the basic tune related to the resource and where it will be created, there ar
73: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we will be discussing about Terraform backend. So at a high level overview backend primarily determines where the Terraform stores its state file. Now we already know that by default, Terraform implicitly uses a backend called as local to store the state as a local file on a disk. So whenever you go ahead and do a terraform, apply in the same folder where your confi
74: Hi everyone, and welcome back. So in today's video we'll go ahead and implement a central backend. And we'll look into how Terraform will go ahead and store its state file into the central backend that we select. Now as we are discussing that there are multiple types of backends that are available, and depending upon your architecture, you can use one among them. Each one has its own set of benefits. Some of them als
75: Everyone and welcome back. Now in today's video, we will be discussing about one of the important topics in Terraform, not only from a production point of view, but also from an exam point of view. And the topic for today is state locking. Or you can also refer to it as a state file locking. Now, one important thing that you need to note is that whenever you are performing a write operation, Terraform would lock the 
76: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we will be discussing about state locking with S3 backend. Now one important thing that we need to note is that by default, when we just use the S3 backend for storing the terraform.tf state file, it does not really support the state locking functionality. So in order to achieve a state locking functionality, you need to make use of an additional resource in AWS, wh
77: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the Terraform State management. Now one important part to remember is that as your usage in Terraform becomes much more advanced, there are some use cases where you may need to modify the Terraform state file, and there are many use cases where this is required. Now, in many cases, it has been observed that when an individual modifies t
78: Hi everyone and welcome back. Now in today's video again we are going to discuss about an important topic in Terraform, which is remote state data source. Now from what I have seen in any medium to large scale organization, remote state data source based feature is extensively used and hence it is important for us to understand the benefit that this provides. So with this, let's get started. Now, before we look into 
79: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing about the benefits that the remote state data source provides and how it allowed the security team to connect to the TF state file that is managed by a networking team in a remote state, fetch the value and use it as part of their configuration. Now, in today's video, we are going to look into it from a practical point of view to understand t
80: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the Terraform testing framework. Now relatively this is a newer feature that has been introduced in Terraform. And I would say this is very useful in wide variety of use cases, specifically in organizations, if you are maintaining your own set of modules that are regularly updated, the overall testing framework will prove to be very use
81: Hi everyone, and welcome to the practical video associated with the Terraform test. So let's get started. Now. In the earlier video, we were discussing about the basics of Terraform test. And depending upon the test use cases that you have written. By running the Terraform test command, it will validate your entire code and based on that, you will get the appropriate result. Now the question that comes is where exact
82: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the assertions related aspect as part of Terraform test. Now at this stage when we were exploring Terraform test, the use case that we were discussing were very simple, where we used a run block to test our code, both at the apply stage as well as at the plan stage. Now, although this is quite good enough to begin with. However, this do
83: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the root level attributes that you can add as part of the Terraform test. And we are also going to discuss about some of the important areas where you can achieve wide range of flexibility. Now at this stage, we already know that each Terraform test it lives in a test file, which is based on the extension of TF test.cl or tf test dot JS
84: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about an important topic which is Terraform modules. Now in most of the organizations that are mid to large sized, from what I have seen all of them, they make use of the Terraform modules quite extensively and in a longer term, even if you are working with a smaller scale organization, by making use of the modules, you will have to spend les
85: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing the benefits that module provides and how it can make your life simple by writing less number of Terraform code and for the larger organization, how it can also bring a lot of benefits that they require related to not repetition of code, bringing in the standardization, security, best practices, and so on. So in today's video, we are going to
86: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss some of the important pointers that you have to keep a note of whenever you are referencing to the Terraform module as part of your code. Now, the first important part that we have to keep a note of is that for some of the infrastructure resources, you can directly use the module calling code and the entire infrastructure will be created for
87: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore on how we can choose a right Terraform module for our requirement. Now, one thing that we need to understand is that when you explore the Terraform registry, which contains so many modules, you have to keep a note that for a specific infrastructure object, it can be EC2 instance, IAM, etc. there can be multiple different modules that would b
88: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we'll go ahead and we'll start with a journey of creating our own set of modules. Now in many of the organization, the instruction is that you should not be dependent on the public set of modules that are available in the Terraform registry, because they'll go ahead and update and maintain the modules based on the timeline that they prefer. Many a times organization
89: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video, we had created the base module structure for our own module. And in today's video we are going to go ahead and we are going to create our first module. And the module will be based on EC2. Now the name of the module might create a confusion that it is some complex code that you will have to write, but it is not. So the ordinary code that you write to create a E
90: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about module sources. And we are also going to look into how we can reference to a specific module. Now one important part that we need to keep a note of is that a source code for a specific module can be present in a wide variety of locations, so these locations typically can include a GitHub page. This is very common for the modules that we
91: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now, in the process of creating our own module, we had first created the base module structure. Then we had created our first EC2 module a very simple module code. The next step that we have to figure out is how a team member can reference to this specific module. Now, since the module code and the team folder code is in the same workstation, we have to now identify which of the module 
92: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore the improvements that we can make as part of our custom module code. Now at this stage we have created a very simple module and we have looked into how a module is created. That is the first step. We have looked into how a developer can call the module to create their own infrastructure. So this part of module workflow is something that was 
93: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about variables in Terraform modules. At this stage, we have already discussed that as much as possible. You should avoid hardcoding the values as part of your module code, because the users who will be calling your module, they will not be able to override it. So this will make your module less flexible. So what is the way in which we can co
94: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore the practical aspect about the advantages of adding a variable in the module code. So we are going to improve our module code and we are going to add variable. And then we'll also see on how the team will be able to override the values here. So going back to our CPP Labs Terraform modules folder, let's quickly open this up with our Visual St
95: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and improve our custom module code with the provider related improvements. At this stage, we have been hard coding the provider as part of the code, which is again not the best practice. Instead, you can make use of the required providers block. So let's go ahead and quickly explore this. Now within our main module source code associated wit
96: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about module outputs. Now generally in organization if you are working with modules you will see that you will have multiple set of modules for wide variety of services that are being actively being used in your organization. And in such cases you will have multiple set of projects as well. Now when you have multiple set of services, multiple
97: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about two important terminologies which are root module and child modules. Now it is important for you to remember these terminologies because we have seen that even in exams, HashiCorp might test you against these two very specific ones. So let's go ahead and understand both of them. The first one is the root module. Again this is very simpl
98: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the standard module structure. Now at this stage we have been experimenting with the basic concepts of module and its related features. Now, since we were new to modules, the overall structure that we had kept was very simple and the main aim was to understand the concept. We were not really following the best practices and so on. Howev
99: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the basics of moved block. When we discuss about moving a specific configuration into a module. So with this let's get started. Now many times in organization you will come across scenarios where you have some long lived configurations that have been used to create a resource. And at a later stage you realize the advantages of module. A
100: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to look into how we can include multiple provider configurations specifically while using modules. Now at this stage we have been keeping very simple where whatever module that we were calling. So in the root module we used to have a provider related configuration. And all of the resources that are part of the child module used to inherit this default p
101: Hi everyone, and welcome to the refactoring use case number one which is associated with renaming resource with count. So let's go ahead and understand this. So the use case states that if you change the name of a resource, Terraform will assume that whatever previous resource was present with the older name needs to be removed, and the newer resource with a newer name needs to be created. For example, let's say that
102: Hi everyone, and welcome to the refactoring use case number two, which is associated with enabling count for existing resources. Now the overall use case again is quite simple where you have two EC2 instances with similar details like Ami same. The instance type is same and what you would like is you want to refactor this into a single resource, which makes use of the count parameter. Now for many of the instances yo
103: Hi everyone, and welcome to the refactoring. Use case number three where we are going to discuss about how you can enable forEach for existing resources. Now at this stage we have been discussing about refactoring use cases that makes use of count. Now count again is quite useful for scenarios where the argument values are similar across multiple resources. For example, here you have two resources, A and B and the ar
104: Hi everyone, and welcome to the refactoring. Use case number four where we are going to discuss about enabling count for a module call. So let's go ahead and set the overall base. So let's assume that you have a child module here a very simple child module. All it does is it creates a IAM user in AWS called as KP labs user one. Now you are calling this from the root module. Now we know that when you do a terraform ap
105: Hi everyone, and welcome to the refactoring use case number five. In today's video, we are going to look at an overview about how we can split a route configuration into multiple set of child modules. Now generally in a smaller scale organization, what happens is that they include everything in a single main.tf file, and as the time grows, you will see that the main.tf file has become too lengthy and it warrants spli
106: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video associated with the AWS CLI, we are going to discuss about two very important files that you have to keep a note of. One is the config file and second one is the credentials file. So with this let's get started. Now one point that we have to keep a note of is that whenever you go ahead and use the AWS configure command and add the access and secret keys and the regi
107: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can configure the AWS provider in Terraform to connect to the shared configuration and credentials file that are not present at a default location. Now, at this stage, we know that whenever you specify the AWS provider without access and secret key hardcoded, it will automatically fetch or it will source the credentials and other se
108: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about a very important topic called as named profile in AWS CLI. Now, in almost all of the organizations that you will be working with, name profiles are one of the common things that you will either directly or indirectly be configuring as part of the AWS CLI within your workstation. So let's go ahead and discuss in detail about this. Now, o
109: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss on how we can set the named profile related parameter as part of the AWS provider in Terraform. So one of the prerequisite for today's video is that your understanding about the name profile in AWS CLI should be clear, because this is what we will be configuring in Terraform. Now, first point that we have to keep a note of is that whenever yo
110: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video again, we are going to discuss an important as well as interesting topic which is a multiple provider configuration in Terraform. Now many times in organizations it can happen that you have multiple resources that are defined in a single Terraform tf file. And what you want is each resource type in a single file must be deployed in different set of regions. So the o
111: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the default tags that you can add as part of the AWS provider. Now in AWS, as part of the best practice, it is recommended that organization follows a standard tagging strategy for all of the resources that are created. For example, if you see there are two resources in the screenshot, both of them have tags. Now what are t
112: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can assume a specific IAM role to fetch the credentials to create the resources through the AWS provider in Terraform. Now, the concept and the overall implementation that we will be discussing in today's video is very important from production perspective, because in most of the medium to large scale organizations, you will see tha
113: Hi everyone and welcome back. So today is going to be the practical video where we are going to look into the exact steps that are required to go ahead and achieve the assume role related operations as part of the Terraform. So for today's practical we have a very simple file called as assume hyphen role dot f which creates a simple security group. You will find this in our GitHub page. Now if you look into this spec
114: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the dependency log file. Now, many of you might have observed that when you run the Terraform init in the folder where the TF state files are stored, there is also one more file that gets automatically created with the name of terraform.log.cl. If you have not observed, that is also fine because we are going to start with the practicals
115: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss at an overview about the debugging aspects related to Terraform. Now before we look into the debugging related pointers, first, it is important for us to understand what debugging really means. Now, at a very high level overview, debugging is the process of finding the root cause of a specific issue. It can be any issue not just related to T
116: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video we were discussing about the debugging aspects of Terraform at a high level overview, we were discussing about the two important environment variables that needs to be set. First one is the TF underscore log. Second one is the TF underscore log underscore path. So today is going to be the practical video where we will go ahead and set both of these as part of th
117: Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss about the HashiCorp cloud platform. And the product of our interest is going to be Terraform. Now this is also referred to as HCP. And in the initial days we used to refer it to as Terraform cloud. So in case if you come across blogs or articles where it is mentioned terraform cloud, it means the same thing. The naming convention has changed. So
118: Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss about the pricing aspect of ACP Terraform. Now, when someone is new to the ACP Terraform and they see all of the good features, all of the great GUI that comes with it, the standard question that comes is is it free or is it paid? So that is the important question. And today we are going to discuss about the pricing aspect of Terraform. So as yo
119: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video we were discussing about the basics and the benefits of the HCP Terraform. Now in today's video, we will go ahead and create our first account in the HCP Terraform so that we can explore a wide variety of features that this platform has to offer. So today we are going to open a free account in HCP post, which will be discussing about this specific platform in gr
120: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore the basic structure associated with the HashiCorp cloud platform for Terraform. Now, one of the first important component for HCP is the organization at an overview. The organization is basically a shared space for one or more teams to collaborate on a workspace. We are going to discuss about what workspaces are in just a moment. However, in
121: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing about the basic structure associated with the HashiCorp cloud platform. We discussed the basics of organization, the basics of workspace, as well as the basics of projects. So in today's video, we are going to go ahead and create all of these components as part of our HCP account so that we understand the overall workflow. So going back to ou
122: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video associated with the HCP Terraform, we are going to explore about the workspace related feature in detail. As we were already discussing in the earlier video the difference between a workspace and directory. We saw how a workspace gets linked to a GitHub repository or repository from any other provider as well, to fetch the code based on which the plan and the apply 
123: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the basics of the CLI driven run workflow in HP Terraform. Now at this stage, you might have noticed that whenever you create a workspace in HP Terraform, you will see three options related to workflow. One is the version control workflow. This is something that we have already seen where the code is being fetched from git 
124: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to start with the practical associated with the CLI driven run workflow. So let's get started. Now we have already discussed what the CLI driven workflow is all about. And we also saw some of the benefits where we can run the Terraform CLI command as part of our local workstation. However, behind the scenes the runs will be executed at the HCP level. So
125: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the importance of variable sets in HP Terraform. Now before we go ahead and discuss about variable set, first let's look into the challenge that organizations used to face before this feature was introduced. Now it can happen that in a specific project you have multiple workspaces that makes use of the same set of variables. Now, in suc
126: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we'll be discussing about Sentinel. So at a high level overview, Sentinel is a policy as code framework which is integrated with the HashiCorp enterprise products. Now what Sentinel does is basically it allows users to add a logic based policy decisions. Now, depending upon the logic that you add at a Sentinel, your Terraform plan can either run or either it will no
127: Hi everyone and welcome back. Today we are going to discuss about an interesting feature in ACP Terraform which is the run triggers. Now one important prerequisite as part of this video is that you need to ensure that you understand the Terraform remote state data source, and this specific feature is primarily added in Terraform to address the challenge associated with Terraform remote state data source. And this is 
128: Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss about the teams functionality as part of HCP Terraform. Now, one of the good things about HCP Terraform is that you can invite your entire team, and the entire team can collaborate together on multiple set of projects so that your infrastructure is created and managed successfully through Terraform. So one of the essential aspects in this case i
129: Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss about how we can manage the permissions as part of the HCP Terraform. This video is going to be slightly theoretical. Generally, I don't like theoretical videos. I like to have and show a lot of practical demos, and I like all of our students to be able to practice as well. However, for some products like HCP, Terraform, this is more of a paid p
130: Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss about the health assessments as part of HCP Terraform. I would say that this is a pretty useful feature. However, the disadvantage is that it is not part of the base tier, so you will have to pay for it if you want to be able to use it. So generally for enterprises this is useful, but for personal testing and verification you will have to still 
131: Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to learn on how we can migrate the state file to HP Terraform. Now one point that we have to keep a note is that HP Terraform product. It offers secure remote state storage and because it is a remote state storage, it also makes it easier to collaborate between team members. Now again, the collaboration part between team members can also work. If you have 
132: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we will quickly go ahead and discuss about the data source of AWS Color Identity. Now, at a very high level overview, whenever you are making use of this data source, it will show you the information about the AWS account as well as the IAM principle that is being used to make the AWS API calls. For example, here you have a data source and here you have the output.
133: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the data source of AWS underscore subnet and AWS underscore subnets. Now at a very high level overview, whenever you define this specific data source of AWS underscore subnets, it allows you to fetch information about the existing subnets in the specific VPC. For example, you have specified the data source of AWS subnets, and in the out
134: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to explore about the basics of creation and management related to the IAM user with Terraform. So in total, there are three pointers that we wanted to cover as part of today's video. First one is related to how we can create a IAM user with Terraform. Second is how we can create the IAM user password with Terraform. And third one is to create the access
135: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about how we can create and manage the IAM policies using Terraform. Now when we discuss about the IAM policies, we are more inclined towards the identity based IAM policies. So just to revise the identity based policies are JSON policy documents that we generally attach to the IAM user, the IAM group and IAM roles. So if you se
136: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the data source of AWS IAM policy document. Now generally, whenever you are working with the IAM policies, there are multiple ways in which you can define the policies. So for example, one of the ways is using the doc strings. You can make use of the Jsonencode function. You can also reference to a policy from a file. And o
137: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about how we can create and manage the IAM role using Terraform. Now when we discuss about IAM role, in order to create and manage it, you can make use of the AWS underscore IAM underscore role resource. Now again when we discuss about IAM role there are two important components of this. One is the permission policies. For example, if someon
138: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into the resource of the IAM role policy attachment in Terraform. Now at a high level overview, we are already aware about the AWS underscore IAM underscore role base resource. What it does. It creates a simple IAM role in AWS. Apart from that, as we know IAM role contains two important components. One is the assume role policy which is the tru
139: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can create a launch template using Terraform. Now to create a launch template you can make use of the resource of AWS underscore launch underscore template in Terraform. Now the overall approach to creating a launch template is very simple. For example, you see we have created a very simple launch template that contains the name, im
140: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can create an auto scaling group with Terraform. Now again, the overall process is quite simple and you have to make use of the AWS Auto Scaling Group resource to create an auto scaling group. Now again, the configuration here is also simple. You have to define minimum size, maximum size, desired capacity, and the availability zone 
141: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video at a high level overview, we'll go ahead and look into how we can create a S3 bucket in AWS and attach the appropriate bucket policies to the bucket. Now overall, the creation of the S3 bucket is very simple. You have to make use of AWS underscore S3 underscore bucket resource, and you have to specify the bucket name. And that's about it. The S3 bucket will be creat
142: Hi everyone and welcome back. Today at a high level overview, we are going to discuss about source profile that you can add as part of the AWS config file. Now the source underscore profile that you add as part of a specific profile in the config file, it indicates which profiles credentials should be used as the source to assume an IAM role. For example, here you have a profile of IAM. You have specified a role Arn 
143: Hi everyone, and welcome to the video course associated with the HashiCorp certified Terraform Authoring and Operations Professional Certification. My name is Zeel and I am going to be your instructor throughout this course. So nowadays in the industry, infrastructure as code has become quite popular. And in fact, if you go to most of the medium to large scale organizations, you will see IAC has been implemented here
144: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video at an overview, we are going to discuss about some of the important examination rules and requirements that you have to ensure that you fulfill before you sit for the exams. The first requirement again this is straightforward, which is the exam portal, are generally attached to your GitHub account. So if you are logging into the exam portal it will ask you to first 
145: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into the overall process for booking the Terraform professional exam. Now in the Google, when you type Terraform professional exam you will see multiple pages. Make sure that these are the hashicorp.com domains. So let's go ahead and open both of them. Now within here you will see that you have the Terraform associate and the Terraform professi
146: Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video at a high level overview, we are going to discuss about the exam environment and how exactly it looks like now as we are discussing that the exam is of four hours and the four hour is sometimes not enough. If you have not done intense practice now within your. When you log in to the exam environment, you have to ensure that you know on how exactly it looks like, how fas
147: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, I wanted to share some of the important tips for the Terraform professional exam. And in case if you follow, it will be beneficial for you. So let's go ahead and quickly explore this. Now the first important tip is to take the backup of all of the base lab scenarios. Now, generally, before you start to work on any of the lab scenarios, you will see that these lab s
148: Hi everyone, and welcome to the part one of the important pointers for the Terraform professional exam. So let's get started. Now the first important pointer that you should know is that mastering modules is a key on clearing the exams. So you should be very familiar with all the topics related to modules and specifically the refactoring module. Scenarios based documentation page is quite important. Let's in fact loo
149: Hi everyone, and welcome to the part two of the important pointers for the Terraform Professional Certification Exam. This specific video will more be focused towards the MCQ based questions that you can expect in exams. Now, since we are focusing towards MCQ questions, one of the important domains that you need to understand is related to the HCP Terraform. Now, we already have discussed about HCP Terraform in quite
150: Hi everyone, and welcome to the interesting part of the course where we are going to go ahead and discuss about Terraform challenges. Now, this series of videos will allow us to practice all of the learnings that we have gained as part of this course and to test ourselves if we are ready, not only for the real world environment, but also from the exam perspective. So with this, let's get started. Now, whenever you le
152: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video we were discussing at an overview about the intention of Terraform challenges. Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can quickly clone the overall repository and get started with the challenge. Now again, the link to the Terraform challenges are already provided as part of the earlier lecture, so you can reference through that now at an overview
153: Hi everyone, and welcome to the overview video of challenge one. In today's video, we are going to discuss at a high level overview about what exactly this challenge is going to test you against, and also information related to how much time it generally takes. Now, similar to our other challenges. Also, this scenario will test you against a wide range of essential skill sets that you need to know as a Terraform prof
154: Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with the challenge. Number one, as we know that this challenge is divided into multiple tasks. And the challenge description also states that you will be required to fix the code, import resource output values, and also manage the state effectively. So what we are going to do, we are going to go ahead and explore each task and apply the appropriate solution ac
155: Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video number two associated with challenge one. So in the earlier solution we had implemented the task one and task two. Now it is time for task number three. So what does it state. It states that you have to save the output values to file as per the below table. So whatever output values that were generated in the previous step, you have to store it in a specific text file. F
156: Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number one. So this is going to be part number three. Now in the earlier videos we have completed all of the step from 1 to 5. Now we are in step number six. We have to complete six, seven and eight. So let's explore step number six here which states that create a new object in S3 bucket using AWS S3 object. This is fine. The name of object must
157: Hi everyone, and welcome to the overview video associated with challenge number two. So let's get started. Now the main aim of this specific challenge is to test your understanding about modules. Modules again is a very important topic. And specifically when we discuss about module the main focus would be towards the module refactoring related use cases. So along with that as part of the refactoring, also there are s
158: Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number two. Now if you'll explore the challenge, in total there are seven tasks over here. So let's go ahead and quickly get started. Now the task number one is pretty straightforward. What it states. Deploy all the resources by running the Terraform. Apply with auto approve. Now within the TF Pro Challenges git repository that we had cloned. Le
159: Hi everyone, and welcome to the second part of the solution video associated with challenge number two. In the previous solution video, we completed task one two. Task four. Today we are going to complete five, six and seven. Now at this stage we had replaced all of the hard coded values. And our Terraform plan is saying 16 to add 16 to destroy. So the task number five will address that which states that update the r
160: Hi everyone and welcome to the overview video of the challenge number three. So let's go ahead and explore what this challenge is all about. Now the main aim of this challenge is to test your understanding about the AWS provider and how it integrates with the Terraform code. Now, generally, whenever you are writing Terraform code, it can happen that one resource block might require a specific configuration of a provi
161: Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number three. Similar to what we were discussing in the overview video, this challenge is primarily focused towards your understanding of the AWS provider and how it integrates with the Terraform code. Now, as part of this challenge, the first thing that you have is a base task. What does the base task signify? It states that the following impor
162: Hi everyone, and welcome to the part two of the Solution video for challenge number three. At this stage we have completed three tasks. Now let's start with the task number four. What is the task number four? States run Terraform. Apply command to deploy local underscore file resource. First. No other resource should be created at this step. Verify if txt file with account number is created successfully. Now if you l
163: Hi everyone, and welcome to the interesting challenge number four. So let's go ahead and look into what it is all about. So at a high level overview, the primary aim of this challenge is to test your understanding about some of the important topics like count and count dot index, the for expression and the output values. Now the area that we are discussing as part of this challenge again is quite important whenever y
164: Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number four. Now one thing that you will see as part of this challenge, you also have a EC2 dot CSV file that has been presented to you. So you will have to use this file as part of the challenge. Now again in this challenge the number of tasks are only two, but sub tasks are much more higher than the main tasks here anyways. So let's explore th
165: Hi everyone, and welcome to the part two of the Solution video for challenge number four. Now as part of this we have to implement the output values. So what does the task two state create output values that display the following information for each created EC2 instance. As we know, there are a total of two EC2 instances that were created and what is the output value that it is expecting? First one is the instance i
166: Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number five. So let's get started now as part of task one. Over here it states that we have to create base resources. So what it states navigate to the base folder and run the following command which is Terraform. Apply with auto approve. Now in the challenge number five let's open this. You have a base folder that is available. Now. If I quickl
167: Hi everyone, and welcome to the part two of the Solution video for challenge number five. So currently we are at the task number five which is to create security group rules. So let's read what it states, refer to the content of the CSV file and create security group rule based on the following conditions. Now first let's explore the SC dot csv file over here. Let's see on what are the contents here. So there are cer
168: Eryone. And welcome to the part three of the solution video for challenge number five. Now at this stage we are at task number eight, which is to refactor the code. So let's explore what it states. Move the following resource types from base folder into VPC child module. So what are the resource type that we need to move. One is the aws VPC. Second is the AWS subnet. And we have to move it to child module folder of V
169: Hi everyone, and welcome back to challenge number six. So let's get started. Now in this challenge also you have a base task. And in this base task it is giving you information about some of the important resources that are part of the base folder. And it is asking us to navigate to the base folder and run the Terraform apply with auto approve. So within our main challenges folder we'll go to challenge number six. We
170: Here you are. And welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number seven. So let's get started. So if you look into the task here the first thing that it states that all values must be fetched dynamically from the EC two dot CSV file. So if you will see there is also an EC two dot csv file that is available as part of this challenge, and it states avoid hard coding any values from CSV in output values. 
171: Harrigan and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number eight. So let's get started now in the task number one, what it states create base resources. Navigate to the base folder and run the Terraform. Apply with auto approve. So let's do that before we read the further instructions. Now from our Main.tf Pro Challenges folder I'll go to challenge number eight. There is a base folder. And within her
