Hi everyone and welcome back. So today is going to be the practical video where we are going to look into the implementation part associated with the plugin caching feature in Terraform. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing about the benefits that this specific feature provides. Now for today's practical video, we are going to consider two operating systems as part of practicals. One is going to be windows, second is going to be Linux. Now if you have a mac OS user, the overall steps will be similar to the Linux one. So just for a note. So with this let's get started. Now in order to enable the overall provider plugin cache related feature in Terraform, you have to use the plugin underscore cache, underscore, dir settings and add it as part of the Terraform RC file. Alternatively, if you do not want to create a Terraform RC file, you can also set a environment variable of TF underscore plugin, underscore cache, underscore dir, and what will be the value associated with both of these. It will be the folder where the cache will be stored. For example, in the screenshot you see there is a specific cache directory where the provider plugins are stored, and all of the projects that require similar kind of plugins can fetch it from this central cache directory. So this is what we are setting as part of the step number one, where you specify the location of the cache directory associated with either this specific setting or this specific environment variable. Now the question that comes is let's say that you choose the option number one where you want to create the Terraform RC file. Now the question that comes is where exactly this RC file must be created. Is there a specific location or you can just create it anywhere. And the answer is there is a specific location where this file must be present. So when we discuss about the overall file name and the location where the file must be present first in windows, the file must be named Terraform dot rc and it must be placed within the relevant users app data directory. We'll be discussing about this. Where can you find it? However, if you are using a different operating system like Linux and even Mac OS, the file name will change. So here you have the dot Terraform RC, which is the file name, and it must be placed directly in the home directory of the relevant user. So let's do one thing. First. Let's go ahead and try this out post, which will be discussing things in more detail. Now before we go ahead and create the RC file. One important part to remember is because in the value here you are specifying the location to the cached directory. So first you need to create this cache directory in the appropriate location, whichever you prefer. So for today's video as we were discussing we will take up two setups, one based on windows and second based on Linux. So I already have a Linux server that is configured, and I am connected to the Linux server. And this Linux server has Terraform downloaded. So the step number one is to create the cache directory. Now for windows I will create a cache directory in C drive. So you can just create a new folder whatever you prefer. Let's just call it as TF plugin hyphen cache. All right. So all of our provider plugins will be available here in Linux. Also currently if you see I am in the root. So I have logged in as a root user. So within the root user I'll go ahead and create a folder of TF hyphen plugin hyphen cache. This is the first important step. Second important step, after you have configured the plugin cache directory, is to create the Terraform RC file and configure this specific setting of plugin underscore cash underscore dir. Now again we know there is an alternative of the environment variable. However, we will use the RC file based concept first. Now for this I will also refer to the official documentation of CLI configuration file associated with Terraform RC. Now if you see, as we were discussing that depending upon the operating system, the place where this file must be present will also differ. So in windows it is in this app data directory for other operating systems like Linux, Mac OS, etc. it must be within your home directory. So first for windows let's go ahead and locate this specific directory. There is one very easy way which is also part of the documentation is to run this command. So I'll copy this. And what I'll do in a newer tab. In fact we'll need PowerShell. So in the PowerShell because if you try it here you see it gives you an error. However in PowerShell if you run this specific command again I'll add it in GitHub so that you can reference to it. It shows you the app data directory. So in this folder you need to place your Terraform RC file. So I'll copy this. Now let's go ahead and paste it here. So this is the actual folder where the RC file must be created. So let's quickly open this up with the Visual Studio Code. All right. So within here I'll create a file called as Terraform dot RC. Make sure that the naming convention is correct. And within this folder we'll add the setting plugin underscore cash underscore dir. In fact you will also see from the documentation plugin underscore cash underscore dir. So I'll add it here I'll do an equal to. And now you can add the location to your cash directory which is C drive followed by TF plugin cash. All right. So make sure that this location is correct. Now similarly let's also do it for Linux. So generally in Linux it is very simple. In your home directory itself you can create a file. Let's just create a file in the home directory called Terraform RC. And in fact you can use the same syntax to point to the appropriate home directory. And within here also we'll use the same convention. So let's copy this. Let's add it over here. Now within here you can provide the absolute path whatever it might be present. So in case if you do not want that you can also use this approach which again is much more better. However just for simplicity I'll just use root TF plugin cache. All right. Make sure because in your case if you are running in Mac OS then you can try this specific approach once. Then you can go ahead and save this. Now one more thing that you can verify is this home here you can just do an echo on home. And where does it take you? It takes you to the home directory of the user that you are logged into. Now, in fact, let's do one thing. Let's use this specific approach only because everyone will be able to replicate it. The name of the file was Terraform RC. So instead of specifying this, I'll use this. All right, I'll save the change. Now once you have configured this specific directory, majority of work related to this feature is completed. So now let's go ahead and try this out practically. So in our labs Terraform folder. In fact from a newer tab I'll also open this specific TF login cache. At this stage you see the folder is empty. Now in this labs Terraform folder we have a very simple file. If you open this file, all it does is it creates a security group. So now what we'll do we'll open this up with terminal. And I'll do a terraform init. So first time it is downloading the provider plugins. So let's quickly wait for this process to complete. Arthur. Great. So after the initialization you have the dot terraform. Inside the terraform you have providers. Then your registry. Terraform IO, HashiCorp, AWS the version and then the actual plugin. So let's go back here. So this is the overall structure. Now if you open up the TFX plugin cache again here you see you have registry.terraform.io. So it started from here. It started from here. Then you have the HashiCorp AWS version, the platform and the actual provider plugins. So at this stage one thing that we were able to practically try is that after we had created the Terraform RC folder, now when we did the Terraform init, the provider plugins are stored in this specific folder here, and it is also stored in a project folder. Now let's do one thing. Let's just copy this specific code. And in our Linux server let's create a file called as tf project. Inside this specific folder we'll create a file called as sg.tf, and we'll paste the contents here. I'll quickly do a terraform init. So again very similar to windows. It is going ahead and downloading the provider plugins. And it is completed. Now if you do a ls la command as we know we have the dot terraform folder. Now if you go back, let's do an LHS. You also have the TF plugin cache. Now if you look into the TF plugin cache directory similar to windows, you see you again have the registry Terraform IO folder here, and the provider plugins are also available as part of this. Now the step number two is you can create one more folder. Let's create a temp folder. Here I'll copy the TF to the temp folder. I'll open up the terminal from temp folder and we'll do a terraform init from here. And we'll see whether it downloads the provider plugins from internet or it fetches from the cache directory. Now you see it is taking some time. So that probably means that it is downloading it from the internet, because copying it from the cache directory is extremely fast, so let's quickly wait for a moment here. So it is done now in the message, you do not really have a message which states that fetching it from the cached directory also. So from here we have to confirm that it has downloaded it from the internet. So let's understand the reason on why that is happening with important pointers to note. So the first pointer states that as of now, Terraform will use an entry from the global plugin cache only if it matches a checksum already recorded in the dependency log file. This is very important part to remember. If it does not see a match, it will not take it from the global plugin cache folder. And this is the reason why, even in our case, it was not able to match the checksum and that's why it got downloaded from the internet. So in case if you do not want that, you can use the log file. You can add the log file in your version control system, as Terraform init mentions once it has created the file for the first time. So let's quickly look into what this pointer states in the CPP labs Terraform folder. First time when we did a terraform init, we know that this folder and this file got created, and also this folder was created in the plugin cache. So what. The pointer states that this terraform.log.cl is very important. If the checksum does not really match with the one in the plugin cache, then it will not fetch it from the cache. It will get it from the internet. Now, since this log file was not really present in this temp folder, the matching did not happen and it downloaded it from the internet. So for the second scenario, let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and delete the dot terraform folder here. All right. So this specific log.cl is very important because now we had initialized this lock dot. HCL and the provider plugins were also updated based on that. So now. If you do a Terraform init. You see it has become so fast and it is also stating using HashiCorp AWS from the shared cache directory. So tomorrow let's say that you have one more project. Let's just call it as temp two. So what the slide indicated that what you can do is you can commit this lock dot SQL file in the git repository. So just for simplicity, since we are not using git I'll copy both of this file. Let's go to temp two and I'll paste it. This will be your project file. Again it will vary. But this lock dot file is very important because it has a checksum to the provider plugins that are there in the cache directory. So now if both of these matches, then if you do a terraform init, you see it is fetching it from the cache directory itself. Now similar concept will also apply for Linux. Let's also quickly look into it. So in the TF project directory first time when you did a terraform init or to be more precise the latest time. Even if you have done the second time, the second is the most latest one. So the most latest log file is something that you will have to choose. So in this you have the terraform.log.cl. So tomorrow let's say that I have one more project directory here. Say project two. I'll copy the CTF and the.terraform.log.cl to the project. Two. Directory. All right. Now let's go to the project two directory. Here I'll do an LHS. Make sure that a log file is also present in my case. Yes it is present here. So now if you quickly do a terraform init from here, you see we are getting the same result which states that it is using the provider plugin from the shared cache directory. So I hope with this you understood the important point to note part one. Now let's say that you do not really want to get into the business of committing the log file to all of the project folders, or to the git repository. Is there an alternative? And the answer is yes. So that is where the important point number two comes into picture, which states that for the teams that do not want to preserve the dependency log file, there is one more setting that you can add as part of the Terraform RC file, which is plugin cache may break dependency lock file equals to true. Now you can also set it as part of the environment variable, whichever you prefer. However, we will use the Terraform RC file based approach. So let's go ahead and try this out. So again the name is quite big. So you can in fact fetch it from the documentation. Or you can also get it from GitHub. The reason why I'm sharing the documentation because at a later stage this will be useful. So we are talking about this specific part of plugin cache may break dependency log file is equal to true. I'll copy this now within our RC file. I'll go ahead and I'll save the contents here. Let's minimize this. So now to test things let's go ahead and create one more folder called as tmp three. I'll copy the ssdf. Only this time we'll not copy the terraform terraform.log.cl. So now let's open up the terminal. Hopefully it should fetch it from the plugin cache directory. So if I do a terraform init and yes you see it is stating using HashiCorp AWS from the shared cache directory. Great. So I hope with this you understood the practical aspect related to plugin caching in Terraform. Now again, one thing that I wanted to share before we conclude this video is this part of adding this specific environment variable as part of RC file and so on. This was not there in the earlier version of Terraform. So I think before 1.3 version it was very straightforward. You do not really have to do it. You did not really have to copy the log file and so on. But in all of the latest version of Terraform, this is one of the approaches that you will have to take again, depending upon the one that you prefer. This is the current solution that you will have to implement. So that's an overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.