Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to look into how we can include multiple provider configurations specifically while using modules. Now at this stage we have been keeping very simple where whatever module that we were calling. So in the root module we used to have a provider related configuration. And all of the resources that are part of the child module used to inherit this default provider configuration, and the resources were created accordingly. All right. So what this basically means at a child module level, you don't really specify a provider along with region and other information. You can do it at the root module. So for example in this root module has a region of US east one. So all of the resources that are part of the child module will be created in the US East one region. So this is what we have been doing. And it is simple to understand as well. However, in production environments there will be many use cases where you want multiple resource blocks that are part of a given module to be operated by different set of provider configuration. For example, here you have two security group. One is the dev SG one is the prod sg. So for example, let's say you want the prod SG security group to be created in Mumbai region. Dev SG security group to be created in the North Virginia region. Now both of these resources are part of the child module here. So when you have such kind of a requirement, just by explicitly specifying a provider block at a route module will not really solve the issue. So let's do one thing. First, let's go ahead and quickly design this kind of a structure post which will be discussing things in detail. So for today's video we are going to have a very simple structure. I'll go ahead and I'll create a directory of modules. Inside this directory I'll create a directory of network. And in this I'll go ahead and will create a simple file. So first let's do one thing. Let's go back to CP labs Styrofoam. Let's open this up with Visual Studio Code. Now, within here in the Modules network directory, I'll quickly create a file. Let's just call it as CTF, and very similar to the screenshot that we were discussing. I'll go ahead and I'll add a base security group related resource code. Now again I'll add this as part of our git repository so that you can reference to it. So in total there will be two security group resource. Let's call the first one as dev. And here I'll say dev SG. Second one I'll just call it as prod. And here we'll refer to it as prod hyphen sg. Alright a very simple module over here. Now let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and create a file called as Main.tf. So this is going to be the root module. In fact let me also show you. So the Main.tf is created in the root CP labs terraform folder, and the SDF is created in the modules folder. So in the Main.tf we'll just call the module that we have created. Let's just call it as security group and source. I'll specify modules network. All right. Now at a root level you can specify the provider configuration, something similar to the one that we are doing now. Let's say region is equal to any region. We'll say us East one. Let's save this I'll quickly open it up with terminal. Let's do a quick terraform init. Since we have initialized the module let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan here. Now at this stage it is showing two security group to be created. That is fine. I'll quickly do a terraform. Apply auto approve. So the two security groups have been created. And where are these two security groups created? It is created in the North Virginia region. So if you quickly open the security group you see dev and prod. So what this means whatever provider that you have configured as part of root module, the resources will inherit this provider related configuration and it will be created accordingly. Now many times what happens is you do not really want it or you have multiple instances of the provider and each resource should be created associated with a specific instance of provider. So in such cases, the learning as part of today's video is going to be very useful. So let's start with the overall solution. So the step number one is to define multiple instances of the provider. For example here you have provider of AWS and you are using an alias is equal to Mumbai for the second instance here. So if any resource is using this specific provider block, the resource will be created in the Mumbai region of AWS. Now just by specifying the alias will not really do the trick. You will also have to pass the specific provider inside the module. This is very important otherwise things will not really work. Let's also go ahead and try it out. So for example I'll specify a provider again of AWS. We'll use alias of say Mumbai. And the region that we'll add here is AP South one. All right. Now what will happen in Terraform is that the default instance of the provider will be inherited by the child module resource. However the provider that has an alias will not directly work here. All right. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform destroy with auto approve will Approach each step one by one. So let's fix this. We made a small typo. Let's destroy the resource. And we'll recreate the resource here. Great. Now if we look into the state file the resource are still created in the US East one region. All right. This one. So from here, what we have learned, even if we have specified an alias, this will not be inherited by the resources that are part of the module. So for example you can add a provider meta argument here just to understand the scenario I'll say a AWS dot Mumbai. All right. So AWS dot the alias name will add it over here. Let's clear the screen. If you try to do a Terraform plan it is giving an error stating that the provider configuration is not really present, so it is not really able to locate a provider with this specific configuration. All right. So this means this has not been passed on to the child module. So in order to also pass the provider specifically where alias is mentioned you have to use the approach something similar to this. So in the module block itself you have to pass the providers related configuration here. So let's also try this out. So within here I'll specify providers. And within here you have to specify what provider information you want to pass. So let's say I say AWS dot prod. So this part is something that you can change equals to the provider in your route configuration. In this case AWS dot Mumbai. So we are saying that AWS dot Mumbai will be passed as AWS dot prod in the child module. And again you can also change it depending upon the requirement. Let's just save this. All right. So this is the important step. Number one the important step number two is that within the child module you also need to declare the configuration alias for the provider. So in the child module under the Terraform settings here you can add the configuration alias. And within here you can specify AWS dot prod. So let's also try this out. So for required provider block I will directly get it from documentation. In your case you can also get it from the git page that we have added. Let's just copy this. And within the child module you can add this required provider block here. All right this anyways you can modify but let's just keep it as default. So within here let's go ahead and specify configuration aliases. And within here you have to specify this name. So in this case I will say a AWS dot prod. All right. Great. So I hope you understood the step number two. Now the step number three is you can use the provider meta argument as part of the child module resources. So something similar to this. So once it has been added as part of the configuration alias now you can add a meta argument under the resources with AWS dot prod. So this signifies that this specific resource will be created in whatever region is associated with this AWS dot prod. In our case it is Mumbai. So in fact, let's do one thing. Since we have the resources that are created both in US East one region, let's clear the screen. Let's go ahead and destroy the resource before we make the final changes. Again. We made a typo. So once the resources are destroyed. Now within the module, let's specify for prod as z. I'll add a provider meta argument and within here I'll say AWS dot prod. All right so first you have to declare AWS dot prod. This will be passed on to the modules. And you also have to add the same name in the configuration alias. And then in the resources you have to add the same name which signifies that since AWS dot prod is associated with AWS dot Mumbai, which is this specific provider block, the resources will be created in the Mumbai region here. All right, let's save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's just quickly validate everything. Things look good. So let's go ahead and we'll do a Terraform apply auto approve to see the final result. So resources have been created. Now, if you have to verify, you can check from the state file also. So you have one resource in US east one region second resource you see it is in AP South one region. You can also verify. So let's just refresh the Virginia region where the dev is should be present as expected. And the prod SG should be in the Mumbai region. And you see this is the prod SG. All right. So I hope with this you understood the basics on how you can add multiple provider configuration as part of a module. Now before we conclude today's video, a few important pointers that we have to keep a note of. Let's quickly look into it. The first pointer that you have to keep a note of is that the providers argument that you typically add within the root module is similar to the provider argument within a resource. However, in the module you use a map rather than a single string. Why? Because a module may contain resources from many different providers. For example, here you see you have used the providers and for the resource you have used the provider. Now for the resource you have a simple string like structure. For the module you are using a map. Why you are using a map? Because you have a key value pair and there can be multiple key value pairs as well. It is not necessary that you are only passing one. You can also pass multiple set of provider block over here. All right. So this is one distinction that you have to keep a note of. The second point to note is that the provider configuration, specifically the one with the alias argument set, are never inherited automatically by the child module. This is something that we already saw since they are never inherited automatically, you must always explicitly pass it using the providers map as part of the route module. So that's the high level overview. And with this we will conclude today's video.