Hi everyone, and welcome to the refactoring use case number one which is associated with renaming resource with count. So let's go ahead and understand this. So the use case states that if you change the name of a resource, Terraform will assume that whatever previous resource was present with the older name needs to be removed, and the newer resource with a newer name needs to be created. For example, let's say that you have a simple AWS instance with the name of a and you're using a count. Now, whenever you do a terraform, apply here. We know that in the state file, the resource address will look something similar to this, where first EC2 instance will have the index of zero. Second instance will have a index of one. Now at a later stage, when you modify this specific name associated with the resource type to be. So from a, you have changed the name to B, everything else remains to be the same. So now what Terraform will do? Terraform will go ahead and destroy all of the EC2 instances that were created, and it will recreate those instances again. Now as part of refactoring. We should also understand on how you can ensure that even by renaming a specific resource which has a count, the resource does not get recreated. So let's go ahead and quickly understand this. Now, just for simplicity, for this EC2 instance, I'll enable count equals to two and I'll save this. And from the CLI we'll go ahead and we'll quickly do a Terraform apply auto approve so that two EC2 instance will get created. Now from the CLI itself you can identify that. You see you have the first EC2 instance with the index of zero, second EC2 instance with the index of one. Great. So both of these EC2 instances are created. Now when you look into the TF state file you can also understand. You see for the first EC2 instance you have the index key of zero over here. And if you go a bit down for the second EC2 instance, you have the index key of one. Now let's say at a later stage, you change this name to, let's say prod. I'll save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll go ahead and we'll do a Terraform plan. And now you see what Terraform is trying to do. It is trying to destroy the previous two EC2 instances and it is recreating them. So the prod one and prod zero will be created new. And the my EC2 one and the my EC2 zero will be removed. Now generally for a production environment, just by changing the name, you do not really want the servers to be terminated because server can contain important data. Now how you can overcome this scenario is very simple. You can make use of the moved block. And within here you have a from and you have a two. So in the from you have to add the exact address that you will generally see within the state file which is AWS underscore instance dot my EC2. So AWS underscore instance dot my EC2. This is the database address. And in the two you can say AWS underscore instance followed by newer name. Whatever you have specified. In this case it is prod. Alright. And that's about it. Now one of the benefit here is that even though you have added a count and we know that for count, you have a index key of zero and one. So in total there are two addresses here. However, when you add a single moved block, Terraform is intelligent to understand that both of the addresses needs to be migrated accordingly. So now when you do a Terraform plan, you see it says zero to add, zero to change, zero to destroy. And when you do a terraform apply, all it will do is that it will change the address. For example, this specific address my EC2 with the index key of zero will be changed to prod zero. My C2 one will be changed to prod one. At this stage as part of the state file, it has not been modified, so modification will only happen when you do a Terraform. Apply auto approve. So let's go ahead and do that. So the apply is completed. And now if you see the name has been changed accordingly. Now in case if you like you can also go ahead and add the index key with multiple set of moved blocks. Now let's also go ahead and try this out. So I'll comment this out. Now let's say that you have this in the state file. So let's go ahead and add two sets of mood blocks here. So from let's go ahead and replace it. So now you can say something like zero and whatever new name that you want to give. Let's say I call it as staging. You can say staging zero. In a similar way. We'll just change the index key to one and one. All right. So this will also work. Let's go ahead and try this out. Now since we have already changed the name and we have added the move block, it should directly work. So when you do a Terraform plan. You see we are getting similar output. No resources getting recreated. All right. So at a high level overview you should note that this approach is very explicit here. This one will ultimately use the same kind of logic behind the scenes. But this part makes things easier. For example, let's say you have count of ten. Now will you be adding ten moved blocks you can add, but it will unnecessarily make your code base large, so a single move block can also do the same. But in case if you follow this approach for learning, it gives you a better understanding on how things are working behind the scenes. All right. So I have also added the solution associated with this as part of this video for your future reference. So with this we'll conclude today's video.