Hi everyone, and welcome to the refactoring use case number two, which is associated with enabling count for existing resources. Now the overall use case again is quite simple where you have two EC2 instances with similar details like Ami same. The instance type is same and what you would like is you want to refactor this into a single resource, which makes use of the count parameter. Now for many of the instances you see this is beneficial. For example, let's say that your code has ten EC2 instances and all ten EC2 instances have the same instance type, same Ami. Now you do not really want ten instances of resource of AWS underscore instance unnecessarily. Your code base will be larger. So what you would like, you would like that your code is refactored into a single resource block which makes use of count. So this is what we are going to learn in today's video. So let's go ahead and try this out. Now for today's video we have a very simple code. What it does is it creates two EC2 instances. One resource has a name of a second has a name of B. So let's go ahead and quickly do a terraform apply. Now from the CLI I'll quickly do a terraform apply auto approve so that both the instances are created and a state file is also updated accordingly. Great. So at this stage we have two resources that are added. And if you look into the TF state file again, since count is not used, the index will not come into picture. You have the first resource AWS underscore instance dot a, and the second one would be this one AWS underscore instance dot b. So as we are discussing you don't really want multiple set of resource block where the argument values are same. You see a benefit of having a single resource block using count. So this is what we are going to try. So let's say that I add the third resource block here. The name will change it to C and the first to will comment it out. At this stage, we already know that whenever you do a Terraform plan, what will happen? There will be two to destroy. You have one to add. Now, just for the completeness of the workflow, we'll go ahead and also try it out to verify the output. As we were seeing you have two to destroy. You have one to add. What is one to add. It is AWS underscore instance dot c. Now the aim here is to ensure that these two instances are not destroyed. Now first thing since we have added this resource block we have to make use of count parameter over here. Now you have added the count parameter. We know that the two resource that will be created as part of this block will have the address of AWS instance C, followed by index key of zero and AWS instance C followed by index key of one. So this is something that you should be able to determine to ensure that you write the correct moved block. So now let's go ahead and create a move block I'll say from and I'll say two. All right. We'll add it two times. Now what you need to do. The resource address which is part of the state file, that resource address you have to add. For example you can just do a Terraform state list. You get this resource address. You can copy this to one of the move block. And second resource address here two second move block. This is one. Now we have already computed what address this resource might create. So you have to add it in the two block here. Let's do that. And that should do. Let's go ahead and save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. So this seems to be working. It is showing zero to add, zero to change, zero to destroy. And as we know only after we do a terraform, apply the exact address as part of the state file will be updated. So just to verify we'll go ahead and we'll also do a Terraform apply auto approve so that we can quickly also verify the state file contents. So none of the resources were recreated. And if you look into the state file you have a single AWS instance C with the index key of zero. And you should also have one with the index key of one here. And similarly, if you do a Terraform state list you see you have index of zero index of one. All right. So once you have completed the practical make sure to go ahead and destroy both of the instances to avoid any unnecessary charges. Let's quickly do a terraform destroy. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview you understood about the refactoring. Use case number two. And with this we will conclude today's video.