Hi everyone, and welcome to the refactoring. Use case number three where we are going to discuss about how you can enable forEach for existing resources. Now at this stage we have been discussing about refactoring use cases that makes use of count. Now count again is quite useful for scenarios where the argument values are similar across multiple resources. For example, here you have two resources, A and B and the army value and the instance type value is same across both of them. And this is the reason why when you refactor it to a resource number C, all you have to do is you have to add a count. The Army instance type will remain to be the same, and you can just reference to the index key as part of the moved block. However, the challenge happens when the value associated with various arguments like am I instance type are different across different resource blocks. So in such cases foreach will prove to be very useful. All right. So just to revise for resource type that have different values. For example. Here, the Army of AWS instance A is different from the army of AWS instance B, so when you have such kind of a scenario directly, if you make use of count, it will not really work. And this is the reason why you have to make use of foreach to deal with different set of argument values for different set of resource block, but of same type. So let's go ahead and look into how we can refactor it for using forEach. Now as part of today's video, we have two resources, one with the name of a second with the name of B. Both of these resource has a different army value that is being added here. All right. So this is part of refactor hyphen three. Let's go ahead and quickly create the resources accordingly. Now from the CLI I'll go ahead and I'll quickly do a Terraform apply auto approve for the instances to be created. Great. So the apply is completed. So now what you want. You want to refactor both of them into a single resource type. Let's call it with the name of. See, now, the issue here is that since EMI is different across both of the earlier resources, you cannot add one specific EMI here. Otherwise one of the EC2 instance will be affected. And it can also happen that each EC2 instance has a different instance type. And other arguments might also be different. So in such cases as we know for, it will prove to be useful. Now when you are making use of for each, there are two areas that it can support. One is the map, second one is the set. So we will primarily make use of map just for simplicity at. It helps specifically when you have multiple set of values that are different. So we create a map as part of locals itself. So let's say I have instance underscore data. And within here we'll have a map. Let's say first EC2. And here you can specify the details like for example am I My. Let's copy this Ami here. And maybe even if the instance type is different. Just for simplicity, I'll also add the instance type. This is. First, let's add second EC2 again within your Ami will copy the value of the Ami from the instance b and instance type. We'll just use T2 micro for simplicity. All right. So this is the map. Now for instance see over here you have to make use of for each. And you want for each to loop through what you want for each to loop through this. So what you can say local dot instance underscore data. All right. So within here what you have you have this and you have this. Now the question that comes is how do you extract this data. So even before you go ahead and you create this, it is important for you to know on how you can first extract this data and how you can extract this data. Then you can write the proper foreach. So let's do one thing. Just for simplicity. I'll just create the output value. I'll just call it as test and within here in the value what you can say local dot instance underscore data. Now let's see what exactly does this output. So from the CLI if you quickly do a Terraform plan at this stage it is outputting both the for CC two and second EC two. So this is what this part also does. Now the question is how will you fetch this specific value from first underscore EC two. So that is also something that you have to keep a note of. So for example let's say you specify first EC two here. Let's add a quoted string. I'll save this. We'll do a Terraform plan. And now we are getting details from first EC2 only, and even from that detail. If you just want the Ami, what you can do, you can specify Ami here. Save this. We'll do a Terraform plan and this time we are only getting the Ami. So once you figure out on how exactly the data gets extracted from a map, it will become much more simpler. Now let's also go ahead and fill in the EMI and the instance type. So am I. I'll say each dot value dot. What is the value that we are referencing to your Ami. So I will just specify Ami and instance type each dot value dot. What is the name instance type only. So we'll go ahead and add it here. So this will act as a suitable replacement for this at this stage. So let's do one thing before we add a move block Let's go ahead and quickly verify this. So we'll do a Terraform plan. So total of two EC2 instance will be created. Let's verify the Ami. This Ami ends with DRC. And this ami ends with a-4a. So both of them are different. So that means things are working here. Now within here this also proves to be very useful. So this address here AWS instance see second EC2. And you have the first EC2. So now let's go ahead and write the moved block here. So I'll say move from and to. All right. Total of two moved blocks will be required. Now simplest way. Again this is what I prefer. You can do a Terraform state list. It is giving an error. That is fine. What you can do. You can just comment this out for simplicity. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform state list. This is the actual information from state file. I'll copy this. I'll add it in from. I'll copy this. I'll add it in the second move block here. And now in the two section, similar to how we were referencing here. You see, we used to explicitly reference by the key which is the first EC2, the second EC2. In a similar way, whatever resource that you create for AWS underscore instance dot C, followed by this one, which is first underscore EC2 and second underscore EC2 is something that you'll have to specify. Now again, you can also in case if that sounds confusing, sometimes you can directly do a Terraform plan. Fetch the exact resource address that Terraform is trying to create, and you can just copy it from here. Replace it here, copy it from here. Replace it here. So that should ideally do. All right. Now let's go ahead and also comment out the earlier code. And we'll just also comment out this output. This was just to reference on how we can get the data. I'll save this. Now let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. As expected you see zero to add, zero to change, zero to destroy will do a terraform apply auto approve. Great. Now if you do a terraform state list you should see AWS instance C four cc two second EC2. Great. Now before we conclude, one point to note is that in case if you realize that there is only one argument whose value is different, you can also make use of set in such case. However, when we discuss about production, the chances of multiple arguments having different values are quite high. And this is the reason why we took a better example of using a map instead of set. So that's an overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.