Hi everyone, and welcome to the refactoring. Use case number four where we are going to discuss about enabling count for a module call. So let's go ahead and set the overall base. So let's assume that you have a child module here a very simple child module. All it does is it creates a IAM user in AWS called as KP labs user one. Now you are calling this from the root module. Now we know that when you do a terraform apply what will be the resource address that will be created for this specific user. The resource address would be module dot iam underscore user dot aws underscore iam underscore user dot elb. Now at a base. This is fine. Now let's say that at a later stage you have a requirement where you need to create multiple set of users. For example you want to create five, ten, 15, 20 users. So are you going to go ahead and inside the module going to write the AWS IAM user resource block 1520 times? Answer is no. You might consider using count now, since in AWS the IAM user must be unique, you cannot have multiple users with the same name. So this is the reason why you are making use of count dot index at the end. So what will happen? First time user will be KP labs, user zero, KP labs user one and so on. Now whenever you enable count for a resource where count was not enabled previously, what will happen? The first object that was initially created before count was added inside the module will be moved to the index of zero. For example, here you see this KP labs user one, which was created before count was added inside the module. This will be moved to the index of zero. Since it is moved to this specific index of zero, even the user name is changing from KP labs user one to KP labs user zero. So we also have to understand that when you enable count for an example on how you can refactor it so that the existing resources are not modified. So let's go ahead and try it out. So in the KP Labs Terraform folder I'll open this up with Visual Studio Code. Now since this is a clean folder quickly let's go ahead and create a folder of modules. Then we'll create a folder of IAM. Now from the Visual Studio Code in the module IAM folder we'll create a new file. Let's just call it as IAM wtf a very simple file. All we'll do is we'll specify the aws iam user resource type and the name. Just for simplicity, we'll just call it as KP labs user one. All right. This is the first part. Now we'll create a file called as Main.tf. And in this file what we are going to do we are going to call the module that we have created. So I'll say in the source modules IAM. All right let's go ahead and save this. So coming back to our KP labs Terraform folder I'll quickly open this up with terminal. First thing required we'll do a Terraform init. Once init is done we'll go ahead and do a terraform plan. So ideally it should create a new IAM user call as KP Labs user one. This is as expected. We'll go ahead and do a quick Terraform. Apply with auto approve. Great. Now in the IAM console you see we have KP labs user one user that got created. So this is the base. Now as we are discussing it can happen that in the organization. Also you have something similar. Maybe not with the IAM user type but with a different resource type. And at a later stage there can be scenarios where you want to create multiple instances of this resources without having to copy paste each resource block multiple times, which will unnecessarily increase your code. So what you can do, you can simply enable count. In this case, we are just keeping it at five. You can even have ten, 15, etc.. Now as we know that in AWS you cannot create user with the same name multiple times. And this is the reason why what you can do here, you can say count dot index. All right. So when you have a code something similar to this. What will Terraform do? It will first create a user of KP labs user zero. This is one. Then you have one. You have two. You have three, you have four. So in total you have five IAM users that got created. But the issue here is that this specific user is already available. And you do not really want to modify this specific user because there might be some other integration with other application which might get affected. So this is something that you don't want to modify. So with the count you want Terraform to create zero, two, three and four. So in order to achieve that you can make use of the moved block here as well. Now again note that moved block needs to be in the root module. So in the moved block over here we'll just say two. And from now in the from we'll clear the screen. You can just do a Terraform state list. Whatever address that you get you can add here will add this. And in the two in fact let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and we'll just comment this out. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan since we have enabled the count. Now in the count you see it says four to add one to change. And what is it changing? It is changing our KP labs user one. It is migrating it to the index of zero. And since it is moving it to index of zero, the user name is also changing to KP labs. Hyphen user hyphen zero, which you do not want. So what you want is this KP labs user one should not be touched and all other users can be created accordingly. So what you can do you can use this specific part. So we are saying that KP labs user one that is already created should be associated with this address and rest for address you can use. So zero, two, three and four can be used as a index key. One should not be touched. So in such case in the two you can add this specific address. In fact you have to use the entire one. So let's copy this. Let's replace here. And that's about it. All right, I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. So this time, you see there is no to change. This is very important. And what are the index key that it is creating. First is zero. The index key of one as we are seeing it is not getting modified. And user one is associated with the index key of one, two is created, three is created and four is created here. So just to verify if everything is working as expected, always do a terraform. Apply with auto approve to ensure that there are no errors during the apply stage. This is done and you can also verify the state file whatever key labs user one was present, it is associated with the index key of one. Great. So once you have completed it, you can go ahead and destroy all of the resources that have been created here. Great. So that's a very high level overview. And with this will conclude today's video.