Hi everyone, and welcome to the refactoring use case number five. In today's video, we are going to look at an overview about how we can split a route configuration into multiple set of child modules. Now generally in a smaller scale organization, what happens is that they include everything in a single main.tf file, and as the time grows, you will see that the main.tf file has become too lengthy and it warrants splitting things into multiple set of separate modules as well. For example, let's say that you have IAM user and you have security group. Now let's say that you have multiple instances of the IAM user, multiple instances of security group, etc. in the root configuration which you do not really want to manage as the code base is becoming much more larger. Now, what you can do is you can split them into multiple set of child modules. So instead of adding all of the IAM user related code, you can split it into a IAM child module and security group related code can be splitted into a security group child module, and this also can prove to be very useful in the longer term. So let's also go ahead and try this out now in our KP Labs Terraform folder. We'll go ahead and quickly open this with Visual Studio Code. We'll create a new file called as refactor hyphen fi, dot tf. And I already have a base code that is available, and this base code is also added in GitHub, so you can directly copy paste from there. Now as part of the step number one, what we are going to do, we are going to create the resources that is present in the TF file. So from this folder I'll open up the terminal. We'll go ahead and we'll do a quick Terraform apply with auto approve. Great. So now as part of this refactoring use case you need to understand on how you can move the code based on which the resources are already created and running in the production environment, and how you can migrate it to the child modules. So first what we need to do, we have to create the child modules here. So I'll create a folder of modules within here. First one will be IAM and second one will be SG. Let's open IAM. We'll create a new file called as I.a.m.t.f. And what we are going to do, we are going to copy this and move this to I.a.m.t.f. Similarly, SC will create a file called as CTF. We are going to copy this code and move to CTF. Now generally I don't recommend directly cutting the code and pasting it there, otherwise you will lose the reference that you might need as part of the moved block here. So I'll just comment this code here. Now what you need to do you have to create a module, let's say module of IAM. And in the source we'll specify modules IAM. Similarly we'll create one more module of SSG. And within the source I'll refer to modules SSG. Now this seems simple to understand. Let's go ahead and do a plan. And ideally what it should do. It should show two to destroy, two to create. So we'll clear the screen. Since we have added a module, what we need to do we have to first do a Terraform init Once this is done, we'll do a terraform plan. So hopefully we should have two to destroy, two to create as expected, two to create, two to destroy. However, we do not really want any destroy process to happen. We just want a refactoring to take place. So now we'll add a move block here we'll say from equals to two equals to. And in total there will be two moved blocks that will be required. Now what we can do, the resource that is getting created I'll copy the address. We'll add it to the two block here. And the resource that is getting destroyed will add it to the from block here. All right. And basically this should do. So let's try it out. So I'll do a Terraform plan. And as expected zero to add zero two change zero to destroy. And finally we'll do a Terraform apply auto approve to just verify everything. And great things seems to be working. You can also go ahead and do a Terraform state list to look into the final address. And this is as expected. Now, one thing that I wanted to share, that it is not always necessary that in a production environment, that whatever code that was present in the root configuration, you use the exact code in the modules. This is something that is not always used. Sometimes, instead of creating the code in the child module from scratch, what you will do, you will make use of some of the public modules. For example, let's say that instead of security group again as we are discussing that this code is very simple. However, in production environment you will have a much more lengthier code. Now instead of using this code only in the child module. This again is a very simple code. It does not have a lot of options that you can modify or change from the root module in case if necessary. So what you do, you make use of some of the mature public module associated with a specific service. For example, in the Terraform registry page. There is a security group module that is already available. If we explore the source code now in this specific GitHub, if you look into the Main.tf, you will see that the code is quite lengthy. So if you will explore this, you have around 1000 lines of code. So very extensive module. Now again this module just does not create a security group, but all of the associated important part that it would require. For example, you have the security group ingress rule, you have the security group egress rule and all of those that are available. Now, again, it is not necessary that you need to have such a complicated module all of the time, but it can happen that whatever code that you have, you want to refactor it into a module that is publicly available. And in such cases, the learning that we had in today's video will act as a base on how you can initially do the basic migration post, which you will have to modify a bit based on the actual module and the resources that are created. So that's a very high level overview about the refactor use case number five. And with this we will conclude today's video.