Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video associated with the AWS CLI, we are going to discuss about two very important files that you have to keep a note of. One is the config file and second one is the credentials file. So with this let's get started. Now one point that we have to keep a note of is that whenever you go ahead and use the AWS configure command and add the access and secret keys and the region ultimately behind the scenes, your data gets stored in a file named config and credentials. So let's understand this through a diagram where let's say you have just configured your aws CLI as part of your workstation, and first time you have run the AWS configure command, we know it asks for the access key, secret key region and the output format, and you have supplied each one of them. So now behind the scenes the AWS cli will store all of this data in two files. First file is the config file and second file is the credentials file. And this is the reason why even if you restart your laptop, you try after say a year, you will still be able to run the AWS commands, considering your access and secret keys are still valid. Because all of this data behind the scenes, it gets stored in the files as part of your workstation. So whenever you run the AWS CLI commands at a later stage, the aws cli will fetch the credentials from these back end files for the overall authentication to take place. Now the important question is where exactly these config and credential files are stored by the aws CLI. So the location of the files are important for us to know. And at the overview the credentials and config files are stored in a folder called as dot AWS within your home directory. Now again the home directory path will depend upon the operating system that you are using. However, one of the easiest way is you can make use of the environment variable. Specifically in windows, the environment variable is user profile in Windows and Home or tilde in Unix based system. So let's understand this with a screenshot. So if you just do ls hyphen l tilde followed by dot s, you will see that the config and credentials file are present. So this is a screenshot from Linux. Now when we discuss about windows you have an environment variable of user profile which takes you to the home directory. And then you have a folder of dot AWS. So let's also quickly look into these aspects. Now for today's practical I have two tabs that are available. One is associated with a Linux server. Second is associated with my local laptop. First, let's start with the Linux based system, where AWS configure has already ran and the files are created. Now, as we know that whenever you run the AWS configure command Behind the scenes, there will be two files that will be created in the dot js folder in the home directory. Now if I just run the id command, you see currently I am logged in with the root user. So irrespective of the user, the home directory will remain to be the same. If you are running this command which is dot js something like this. So what it is doing in the home directory that is being referenced, there is a folder of dot js and we are running the ls command. So within here you see you have two files config file and credentials file. So this is for Linux. Similar will work for Mac as well. Let's explore the windows part. Now in windows if I go to my C drive I go to users. Let's go to the user that I am currently using. And inside this you see there is a folder of dot js. If I open this folder you see I have two files, the config file and the credentials file. So generally what you can do you can either copy the entire path. So from windows Terminal if you want to explore this you can just run this specific command. And you will see the config file and credentials file. Now in case if you do not really want to specify the exact path because here also in Linux we did not really specify the entire path. All we did we used the tilde. So within here also you can make use of the environment variable of user profile. So what you can say there user profile. So this is the environment variable. And then you can say dot AWS. This will also work. You see we have the config and we have the credentials file. Now that we understand the location where these files are stored, the next important part is what exactly is stored in these files. Because you can also store the access and secret key and the region and the output format in one file itself. So why two files are created? If two files are created, what data is present in each of the file is something that is important for us to understand. So as part of this, the first point to note is that the actual secrets, which are the access and secret keys that you add as part of the AWS configure command, these secrets get stored in the credentials file. The other configuration, like the region, details the output format it gets stored in the config file. This is something that you have to remember. So when you explore the AWS credentials file here, you will see that the access and secret keys are stored. And if you explore the config file, various other information like the region name are stored over here. Let's also try this out. So in a Linux system, when we run the cat command on the config file first what it is showing it is showing you the region related information. And if you run the cat command on the credentials, file. It shows you the access key and the secret key, whatever it has been configured. Now, one thing that I wanted to share is that whenever you run the AWS configure command, let's say you want to update this access and secret key with a newer value. So you can easily do that. Let's just call it as Access key zero one. Just for an example. Secret key I'll say secret key zero one region. Let's just call it as AP South one and output format. Let's just call it as JSON. So whenever you run the AWS configure command again it will ask you for the value and whatever value that you provide. These value will be updated in the config and the credentials file. So if you run the same command once again the config command. This time you see AP South one and JSON. Earlier it was US east one. And again on the credentials file. This time you see Access key one. Secret key zero one. Again, we know that this does not really exist. So in case if you want to reconfigure this, you can just run the AWS configure command once again. So this command you can run once again and you can add your proper access and secret keys here. Now one more thing that I wanted to share is that it is not always necessary that you have to run the AWS configure command to modify the access and secret keys. What you can do, you can manually open these credentials file and you can update them. For example, if I run nano on AWS credentials file, you can go ahead and manually update these file and the changes will be reflected accordingly. However, it is recommended that you use AWS configure command because it is much more easier and chances of making mistakes while modifying the file manually is less. Now, one last thing before we conclude today's video is that this config file can take a lot of other information, apart from the region and the output format that we were discussing. This is just related to AWS configure. So generally if you look into the AWS documentation which shows you details associated with what you can add as part of config file, you see it is quite detailed. So you have great set of documentation. So in the global settings you have so many options that you can add as part of the config file. Now again depending upon the requirement and the use cases this is something that you might need. You might not need. So among all of these settings there are 1 or 2 important settings that you might need in production environment. However, most of them you will not be using. Again, it all depends upon the use case, but the thing is that the flexibility is there for more set of configuration that can be added as part of this config file. So that's a very high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.