Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can configure the AWS provider in Terraform to connect to the shared configuration and credentials file that are not present at a default location. Now, at this stage, we know that whenever you specify the AWS provider without access and secret key hardcoded, it will automatically fetch or it will source the credentials and other settings from the shared Configuration and credentials file. So what are these files and where are they located? By default, they are located in the dot AWS folder in the home directory of the user. So you will see you have the config file and the credentials file here. So if you do not add access secret key as part of your provider block in Terraform, it will fetch it from these location and these files. So one point that you have to keep a note of is that by default, since it fetches the access secret key and the configuration from the dot AWS folder, even if you do not really specify the provider of AWS. That is completely fine. It will automatically source it from that location. However, many times what happens is that for some team members, they will say that I do not really want to put my credentials in the AWS folder, and they might have a different path altogether. In such case, you will have to explicitly specify the path, otherwise Terraform will give you an error. So before we explore the approach of specifying the path, let's look into what we mean by this. So currently I have a very simple file called as shared.tf. All it does is it creates a simple security group. Now as we know that by default, even if you do not really specify a provider, it will go to your home directory and there is a folder of AWS and it will fetch the credentials from both of these files. Let me also quickly show you. So from here it will fetch the access and secret key which is present in the credentials file. And in the config file it will fetch the region related information. So let's do one thing. As part of step number one, we can just do a Terraform plan to ensure that the code is working. And yes, it is. Now just for simplicity what we will do, let's just create a folder of tmp and we'll remove or we will move these files from this folder of dot aws to tmp. So now what will happen when terraform searches for the config and credentials file in the AWS folder. It will not be able to find and ideally it will give you an error. So this time let's run the Terraform plan once again. And we got an error stating invalid provider configuration. The more precise one is no valid credential sources found. So now let's say for my workstation I do not really store the credentials and config file in the AWS folder. I store it in a different folder. For example, let's just create a random folder of KP labs or AWS grids, and in this folder we'll just copy the config and credentials file and we'll move it over here. So what we want is we want terraform to fetch the credentials and config from this specific folder and not the default location. So this is what we need to understand. And this is the aim of today's video. Now whenever there is a different path of config and credentials file, then you can explicitly set that path as part of your provider. So there are two parameters that you need to understand. One is the shared config files and second is shared credentials file. From the name itself you will be able to identify what this does. So in the shared config file you have the exact path where the config file is stored in the shared credentials file. Again the exact path where the credentials files are stored. So let's go ahead and try this out. So within our Terraform code. This time we'll manually specify the provider of AWS. And within here there are two important files. One is the shared config files. And second one is the shared credentials files. And you can add the path accordingly. Now again note that you don't really need to remember this. You can find it from the documentation itself. So from the AWS provider documentation here. If you go a bit down you see you have the shared config files and the shared credentials file. And even the example you will be able to see over here. So within here you will have to specify the exact path of the directory. Let's try it out I'll say C drive CP labs AWS creds hyphen config. Similarly for shared credentials files also I'll copy the same path and all I'll do. I'll change it to credentials. So this should do. Let's save this in your case again. The path will change so you can just replace the path accordingly. Let's clear the screen. I'll do a Terraform plan. And you see, this time the error went away and things are working. Now one more thing that I wanted to show you. Again, this applies specifically for the windows users. So generally whenever you copy the path from here let's copy this. In fact let's just add it here and let's just add the path that we had written here. Now what is the difference between both of them. One is the forward slash and second one is the backslash. So in case if you want to use this method here. So for example let's replace this with the path that we had copied. All right. So generally when you use this it gives you an error. Let's in fact also try this out. So generally when you do a terraform plan It says invalid escape sequence. So generally this path exists. So generally if you just copy this and from the windows you can if you do a CD with this path. In fact let's remove the credentials here. You see you are in the appropriate folder. So although this works for windows CLI but directly, if you try it out and add the path here, it will give you an error. So just to simplify you can add one more slash here on both the sides. And this should solve an issue for you. So if you go back if you do a Terraform plan you see it is working again. Great. So I hope with this you understood both the shared config files and the shared credentials file. Now again, one more point that you have to keep a note that in case if you do not want to specify the shared config file and shared credentials file, you can make use of the environment variable. Now sometimes what happens is let's say you have a team of ten members. Now, each member might have a different location where the config and the credentials files are stored. Some might be using windows. So if you are using windows it might be in a C drive or D drive, etc. some might be using Linux, some might be using Mac OS, so the path will never match. So in such case, instead of hard coding these as part of the provider of AWS, you can instead make use of the environment variable, which is a much more recommended approach. So if you are making use of environment variable, there are two environment variables that you have to keep a note of. First one is the AWS underscore config underscore file. So this is where you will be adding the path of the config file and the AWS shared credentials file. This is where you will be adding the entire path of the credentials file. So this path that we were discussing this will be associated with the environment variable. And you can remove this as part of the provider. All right. So that's a very high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.