Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about a very important topic called as named profile in AWS CLI. Now, in almost all of the organizations that you will be working with, name profiles are one of the common things that you will either directly or indirectly be configuring as part of the AWS CLI within your workstation. So let's go ahead and discuss in detail about this. Now, one part that we need to remember is that whenever we run the AWS configure command, we know behind the scenes the details that you provide as part of the configure, it gets stored in the credentials file and the config file. One more important part that you will have to keep a. Note that this details are stored as part of the default profile. So you will see in the square brackets you have the default that is mentioned over here. And this is referred to as the default profile. Now one point that we have to keep a note is that whenever we generate a access and secret key that access a secret key, it belongs to an individual AWS account and organizations can have multiple AWS accounts. Now, the organization that I have been working with has more than 100 AWS accounts. Now, when you have hundreds of AWS accounts to connect to each AWS account, you might need an individual access and secret key. So just for an example, you have the AWS account one. This AWS account one will have an access and secret key. Then you have an AWS account to the AWS account. Two will have its own set of access and secret key associated with your IAM user. So now the question that comes is how will AWS CLI can be configured to ensure that it supports multiple set of access and secret keys and multiple set of AWS accounts through that. So let's go ahead and understand this. Now. Before we explore that, let's quickly also check the AWS config file. Now in the AWS config file you see that you have the profile of default. And if you check the AWS credentials file. You see, you have the profile of default. Now, whenever you go ahead and run the AWS configure command, and you supply your access and secret key, that access and secret key along with the region and the output that you configure, it gets stored associated with the default profile. Now one of the advantages of the default profile here is that whenever you run a command like aws, S3 ls, it will automatically fetch the access key and the secret key associated with the default profile. You don't really have to manually specify the default profile here. So at a high level overview to support multiple set of access and secret keys, the AWS CLI allows us to add additional profile. Apart from the default profile that gets created whenever we run the AWS configure command. So it would look something similar to this where let's say you have the AWS account one. This AWS account, once access and secret key are associated with a default profile. This is something that we already know. now what you can do. Let's say that you want to configure the AWS account two. So this account two can be configured with a different profile apart from default. So in this case the profile is production. And you have the access secret key with number of two. So this way you can segregate multiple set of access and secret keys based on requirement. So this part over here default production. These are referred to as the profiles. So now let's say that you want to add an additional profile with the access and secret key associated with the production environment. So now what you can do along with the AWS configure command you also have to supply the hyphen hyphen profile flag. So it would look something similar to this. So AWS configure hyphen hyphen profile followed by the name of the profile. Now you can give any name for your profile that is completely fine. And then it will ask you for the access key secret key region and output. And the details will be stored accordingly. Now note that whenever you run this command with the additional profile, Your default access and secret keys will not be modified. AWS CLI will add additional content as part of the credentials and the config file associated with this profile. All right. So let's also go ahead and try this out. Now at this stage if you will just check the AWS credentials file you have a sample credentials. So again this are a non working credentials. They are just an example credentials. It will not really work. So if I just do a aws S3 ls since these credentials are not the active ones it will give you an error and that is completely fine. So now let's say that you have one more set of credentials for the production environment that you want to configure, but you do not really want to replace the credentials that are part of the default profile. As we already know, you can run the AWS configure command with the hyphen hyphen profile. And you can name the profile, let's call it as production. So now it will ask you for the access key ID. And one thing that you will notice here is that it is giving you information. None. So this means there are no access key that is configured for the production profile here. If I will just do a Ctrl C and if I do a AWS configure command, you see within here it shows you the previously configured access and secret key that is the current default for the profile. So if you do not really mention anything as we know it goes to the default profile and it will show you what is the access key here. All right. So let's go ahead and just run this command once again. Now we have to supply an access key. And the secret key. So just for simplicity associated with one of the users let's go ahead and we'll create the access key here. So I'll copy the access key I'll add here I'll copy the secret access key I'll add here the region name. Let's just call it as us East one and we'll complete our configuration. Now that configuration is completed, if you will explore the config file, you will notice that there are two profiles. This is the first profile of default and this is the second profile associated with the production environment. Similarly, if you will check the AWS credentials file again you have the default profile here and you have the production profile here. The next important part that you have to keep a note of is that there is a command, which is AWS Configure List hyphen profiles, which will show you the list of all the available profiles that are part of your config and credentials file. So let's also go ahead and try it out. So I'll say AWS configure list profiles. As expected it is showing you the default profile and the production profile. One more important part that you have to keep a note of is that let's say I want to run a command of AWS S3 ls. Now when I do not really specify anything by default, it will use the default profile here, and as expected, it is giving you an invalid access key ID. That is fine. Now let's say that you want to use the access and secret key of the production environment, because you want to see the S3 buckets in production AWS account. So now what you can do you can do aws, s3 ls. You can specify the profile that you want to use with this command. I'll say I want to use the profile of production. Now the profile of production. You see, through this specific profile, we were able to see the list of S3 buckets that are available. Again, this is primarily because the access and secret keys associated with a demo user. Demo user has the administrator access, due to which we are able to see all of this data. So you have to remember this hyphen hyphen profile flag. Again this is very important specifically when you have multiple keys that are configured as part of your environment. Great. So that's a very high level overview and the basics of the name profile as part of the AWS CLI. And with this we'll conclude today's video.