Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss on how we can set the named profile related parameter as part of the AWS provider in Terraform. So one of the prerequisite for today's video is that your understanding about the name profile in AWS CLI should be clear, because this is what we will be configuring in Terraform. Now, first point that we have to keep a note of is that whenever you are specifying a provider or you have not specified a provider, if no named profile is explicitly specified, then the default profile is used. Now, if your AWS config and AWS credentials file have multiple set of profiles that are available and you have not explicitly set any profile, then the default profile will be used as part of your Terraform configuration. However, in case if you would like, you can also explicitly specify a profile at a provider section so that Terraform can fetch the access and secret keys accordingly. For example, if you look into this screenshot, you have a provider of AWS and you're explicitly stating profile is equal to production. So whatever access and secret keys are associated with this production profile, those access and secret keys will be used to create the resources for your AWS environment here. All right. So this is the basics. Let's go ahead and try it out. Practically now at this stage in my home directory in the dot AWS folder I have the config file and I have the credentials file. Now if I also open this up with the Visual Studio here, you see that I only have one profile of default that is being used. So this default profile is associated with a Terraform user in one of the AWS account. Let me also show you. So this Terraform user is something that I have in one of the AWS accounts ending with double it. And this is the access and secret key that is being used. So tomorrow let's say I add one more access in secret key as part of the AWS CLI associated with say account number two. And I want the resources to be deployed in the account. Number two, as we know, you can specify the profile parameter in the provider of AWS. However, before you do that, you have to ensure that your AWS config and the AWS credentials file are updated accordingly with the right profile. Now for better demonstration, I have one more AWS account in a different browser where I am logged in. This is the sandbox account ending with double five. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and open up the IAM and we'll generate one more access and secret key for the second AWS account. Now again, if you do not really have two AWS account, that is completely fine. For the first AWS account itself, you can generate an additional access and secret key for your practicals. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and quickly create a user called as account zero two hyphen user. We'll attach a policy related to administrator access just for simplicity. And we'll create the user once the user is created, you can quickly go ahead and generate the access and secret key for this user and will configure it as a new profile for AWS CLI. So let's copy the access key and from the aws cli I'll just run AWS configure command. Now, since we already have a default profile that is configured for account number one, this time I'll specify an additional profile. Let's just call it as account zero two. Within here I'll add the access key. Let's copy the secret access key. I'll add it here. Region I'll just call it as AP South one and we'll save the change. Now once this is done, you can just run the AWS Configure List Profiles command to just verify the total profiles. This time you see we have total profile of two. One is the default and second is the account zero two. And also just to verify if everything is working you can just do aws S3 ls. Now since you have not really specified a profile, this will use the default profile here. Now this is associated with the account number one. You see there are so many S3 buckets and same command will run for the profile of account zero to that we had just connected. And these are all the S3 buckets as part of the account number two. So once you have verified everything now depending upon which account you want to create your resource. So if you just specify this resource without the provider block, by default, the default profile will be used and the resource will be created in account number one. However, in case if you want, you can also switch to the account number two profile. In fact, let's go ahead and try both of them so that there is no confusion and our entire use case are covered. So first let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply and we'll see the account number one and verify the security group. Then we'll look into the account number two creation. So let's clear the screen. Let's go ahead and directly do a Terraform. Apply Lightweight auto approve. So the resource is created now in this account. Number one let's go to the EC2 service. Let's go to security groups. And you should see the demo hyphen firewall security group that was created. Once this is done you can go ahead and just destroy the resource. Group. Once this is done we'll take up the second scenario. So this time we'll specify provider of AWS. And we'll explicitly specify the profile parameter here. And here we'll say account zero two. Let's clear the screen and let's run the Terraform. Apply with auto approve again. So the resource has been created this time in account one. If you just refresh you see demo firewall is not present. So let's switch to the account number two. Let's go to the EC2 service. This is in Mumbai region. In security groups you would see you have a demo hyphen, firewall security group available. Great. So I hope with this you understood on how you can set a specific profile as part of the provider. Now one more important point that you have to keep a note of is that generally, whenever you want to set a profile, there are two options or two places where you can do that. One is by adding the profile parameter as part of the AWS provider block. And the second is you can also add the AWS underscore Profile environment variable to specify the name profile. For example, let's say that you do not really want to add this specific code block for all of the resources. So instead you can also set an environment variable of AWS underscore profile. And that will also work effectively. Let's also try it out. So just for simplicity I'll go ahead and I'll destroy the resource that was created earlier. Once this is done, you can remove this provider block of account zero two and I'll save the change. So now when you do a terraform apply, we know that this specific resource will be created in account number one. So this time let's explore the second part of setting the environment variable. Now again depending upon the operating system that you use, the command will change. For example in windows, just to set a temporary variable you can say set AWS underscore profile is equal to account zero to. So this is command to set the environment variable temporarily in windows. If you are using Mac OS and Linux, you have to run the export command. So something like export instead of set AWS underscore profile is equal to account zero two. All right. This is the Linux or Mac OS command. Once this is done you can also verify if this environment variable is set correctly. So you can run echo. Now again a slight change on how it would work in Windows and Linux or Mac OS. So in echo you can just specify the name of the environment variable it is showing as account zero two. And if you are using Mac or Linux, you can just say echo followed by name of environment variable which is AWS underscore profile. All right. So this percentage symbol that you see this is for windows for Linux or Mac OS. This is the command anyways. So once you have verified that the right environment variable is set now you can go ahead and just do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Remember we had destroyed the resource earlier. Before we do that for the account zero two if you just refresh the demo, firewall is no longer present in Mumbai region. So now let's do a Terraform apply with auto approve. The resource is created and within the Firefox. If I refresh the page you should see demo firewall. Great. So I hope with this you understood on how you can set the named profile both at a provider level as well as the environment variable. And with this we'll conclude today's video.