Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the explicit installation method configuration that you can achieve for the provider plugins using the File System Mirror feature. Now at this stage, we already know that whenever you run the Terraform init command, it connects to the registry.terraform.io by default and fetches the appropriate provider plugins for you. Now this is completely fine. However, there is one major prerequisite for this kind of setup to work. And what is that prerequisite? The answer is internet connectivity. Now what happens if there is no internet connectivity? So in such cases, when you do a Terraform init, it will immediately give you an error. Now the question that comes is nowadays with server might not really have internet connectivity. And the answer to this is plenty. There are plenty of defense related installations that are available. There are many on premise setup where servers are very critical. There are lot of critical, important information there, and they do not really have a internet setup available. Or even if internet is available, it is only for a specific set of websites. Not all of them are made available. So in such cases where you do not really have a connectivity to the registry or terraform.io to fetch the provider plugins, in such case, the learnings that we are going to have in today's video will prove to be very useful. So in any kind of airgapped system or in any kind of system where connectivity is not present, the solution will still work. Now the overall solution is to go ahead and download the plugins locally. So it would look something similar to this. So we know that there are some important plugins that you would require in day to day activities. So what you will do, you will go ahead and download this plugins locally. So in your local file system you go ahead and download it, and then you move it to the appropriate server where you want Terraform to fetch and use the plugins from. This is a very straightforward approach here. Now, once you have moved this specific plugins to the appropriate server in a airgapped kind of an environment, next time when you do a terraform init, it will fetch the plugins from the local mirror. Whatever you have configured, you see from the screenshot, you are able to identify your getting this unauthenticated information here. So it is fetching it from the appropriate local mirror. It does not necessarily need to be in the local file system. It can be in an NFS server of a private environment and so on. There is lot of flexibility there. All right. So this is a very high level overview. Let's go ahead and look into it practically so that we understand it from demo perspective. Again today we are not going to go ahead and implement this specific approach. We are going to look into the demo. And in the next video we will look into the practical steps here. Now for today's video we have a very simple file called as CTF. Now if I open this up with code, this is a very simple file which creates a security group. Now at this stage we do not really have the dot terraform folder for the appropriate provider plugins. Now we know that in case if you decide to do a Terraform init at this stage, since the connectivity towards the internet is there, it is going ahead and it is downloading the appropriate provider plugins. All right. So the project has been initialized. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and just delete both of these files. Now let's say internet connectivity is not there. So in fact let's do one thing in windows. I'll just open up the network settings. So currently I use LAN. I do not really use Wi-Fi at all. So for my Ethernet I'll disable it completely. All right. Now if I open up the terminal when I try to do a ping on, say, google.com, you see it is not really working anyways. So in case if internet is not really present when you do a terraform in it, you see you immediately get an error. Why it is stating lookup registry.terraform.io. No such host. So it is trying to connect to this specific website to download the provider plugins. Since internet is not working, we got an error message. So in fact let's just enable the Ethernet connection again. Now as part of the overall solution, we know that you can download the provider plugins locally and then this set of local downloaded plugins can be used as part of the overall Terraform init. So let's also go ahead and look into it from demo perspective. Now as part of our second demo, I already have the local file system mirror configured. So if you see in the file system mirror I have registered or terraform.io and there are certain provider plugins that are available as part of this folder. Now once end to end setup has been done, now again we'll be looking into the practical step at a later stage once the end to end setup has been done when you open up the terminal. So considering that you do not really have internet access at all, when you try to do a ping on google.com, you see internet access is not really present. Now when you do a terraform init this time you see it is installing the plugins like local, AWS, Google and so on. It is also showing you a unauthenticated message that is completely fine. However, it was able to use this specific plugins. So generally in the KP labs Terraform folder If you will quickly open this. You see there are multiple plugins now in case if you are wondering why you have local and Google plugins that are available, I have just modified the file a little bit so that we can have a quick understanding on how even in a private environment, the plugins can be fetched from an appropriate mirror. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the basic concept of file system, mirror and Terraform, where the provider plugins are part of a specific local file system, which will act as a mirror whenever you do a terraform in it. Now is local file system the only approach that you can use as part of the mirror? The answer is no many times. Again, in the private environment where internet connectivity is not there, it does not really mean that the server is not able to connect to other servers. So one server can act as a NFS mount, and the terraform can fetch the appropriate provider. Plugins from NFS or any other approach as well will also work, and then the plugins can be made available accordingly. So that's the high level overview. And with this we will conclude today's video.