Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video again, we are going to discuss an important as well as interesting topic which is a multiple provider configuration in Terraform. Now many times in organizations it can happen that you have multiple resources that are defined in a single Terraform tf file. And what you want is each resource type in a single file must be deployed in different set of regions. So the overall concept can be explained with this diagram where you have a single Terraform tf file and there are multiple resource types. The first resource type is for EC2 instance, and the second resource type is of a security group, which is basically firewall. Now what you want is you want that the EC2 instance must be deployed in a Singapore region, and the security group must be deployed in a Mumbai region. So this is what the requirement is all about. So when you face such kind of a requirement, what are the solutions that you have now at this stage, whatever code that we had been writing, we have been dealing with a single provider configuration, where you define a provider block, and you also define a region like AP southeast one or a US East one. So now what will happen is all of the code block will be deployed in this specific region. Now we have also learned that even if you do not specify the provider block with the region, whatever region that is configured in various different places, it can be environment variable. It can be your AWS config file. It can take it from there. However, at this stage, the both the blocks that you see over here, it will be created in the region that has been configured. It can be Singapore, US and so on. Now, in order to overcome this restriction, where all of the resources must be deployed in a single region, Terraform has released a feature of alias meta argument. Now what this alias meta argument does is that you can specify any number of alternate provider configuration using alias. So again, this is a little confusing. Let's look into it from the code perspective. So first you have your main provider configuration, where you have defined the region as AP southeast one, which is the Singapore region. Now you have define one more provider of the same type, which is AWS. This time the region is AP South one and one more provider of AWS. This time the region is US East one. Along with that, you have also specified an alias. So this is what the alias meta argument is all about. So here you have specified alias is equal to Mumbai and alias is equal to USA. So in short you can consider it to be a code to reference to this specific block. So now when you have this kind of an architecture, what happens is that the resource that you have, you can reference to a specific provider block. For example, the EC2 instance resource is associated with the provider block where alias is Mumbai and the security group resource type is associated with the provider of AWS, where the alias is USA and the region is US East one. So with this kind of an architecture, you can go ahead and deploy multiple resource types in multiple set of regions. So let's do one thing before we proceed further. Let's go ahead and understand this practically. Now for today's practical I have a file called as multi provider hyphen config.tf. Again I have committed this file as part of our GitHub so that you can reference to it. Now as part of this file we have a provider block of AWS where the region is AP South East one, which is the Singapore region. Let me also quickly show you now within the AWS console, if I'll quickly show you, you have the Singapore region and the region code is AP southeast one. All right. So this is what this block does. Now you have the two security group. First one is called as the prod firewall. Second one is called as the staging firewall. Now at this stage when you do a terraform apply what will happen. Both of these security group will be created in this region. All right. So let's do one thing. Let's in fact do a Terraform apply so that we understand each step practically so that there is no confusion at all. Now, before we go ahead and do a terraform apply, let's quickly do a Terraform validate to ensure that the code is fine. And at this stage it is giving an error. What is the error? It says duplicate resource AWS security Group configuration. Now if you look over here we have two security group. However the local name associated with the resource is same across both of them. And this is the issue. So you can just change it to SG underscore one just for simplicity. And SG underscore two. Alright. Once done I'll do a Terraform validate. Things are fine. Great. Now let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply with auto approve here. Great. So at this stage the two security groups are created. So let's go ahead and quickly verify I'll go to the Singapore region. We'll go to the security groups here. Again I have multiple security groups. Let's look into the one that we have created. One was the prod underscore firewall, which is this specific one. And the second one was staging underscore firewall. So let's verify that. And this is the staging underscore firewall. Great. So I'll go ahead and quickly do a Terraform destroy with auto approve here. That's great. So now what we want is we want that the prod underscore firewall be created in region one. And the staging firewall be created in region two. All right. So that is what our aim is now generally in Terraform. Whenever you define the provider block of AWS multiple times it will give an error because directly it is not allowed. For example, if I copy this let me add it over here. Let me define the region of AP South one which is associated with Mumbai. All right, I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform validate. And as expected here, immediately we got an error stating that a duplicate provider configuration. All right. So with this I hope you understand that multiple provider block of same type is directly not allowed. And in case if you want to add it, it says that you have to make use of the alias argument, which is the main topic of today's video. Now in the PPT, we were discussing that using the alias, it is possible for us to add multiple set of provider block of same type with different configuration. Like region can be different and so on. So this is the first part. Once you have defined the provider block. Second part is to associate your resource with the appropriate provider block based on which the resource will be created in the appropriate region. So let's go ahead with the first step here. Now what you can do. You can add an alias block here I'll say alias and I'll say Mumbai. All right, similar to this, I'll add one more provider block alias. I'll say USA. You can give any name in alias. That is completely fine. And the reason I'll say us East one. So once you add the alias block, then the terraform will not give you an error when provider block of same type is used. Now if you do a Terraform validate, you see the error went away. So this is the first part. Now the next part is how we can associate a specific resource type with a specific provider block. Because even if you do a terraform apply at this stage both of these resources will be created in the AP South East one region only. Let me in fact show you this. I'll clear the screen. I'll do a terraform. Apply with auto approve. All right, let's go to security group. I'll just refresh. You see, we have the staging firewall that is available. And if we go a bit down, we have the prod firewall available. Again I have multiple firewalls here for multiple set of demos across our courses. But you will not really have so much. So it will be easier to find. All right. So I hope at this stage you understood that even if you have multiple provider block with alias, if you have not associated a resource type with a specific provider block, it will choose the default one whatever is present. So the next part is for us to understand on how we can associate a resource type with a specific provider block here. And the answer to this is very simple what you can do in the resource type. You can specify one more argument of provider, and you can specify the AWS followed by the alias name, which is Mumbai. And similarly in the second screenshot you see provider AWS dot USA. So AWS dot USA will be referred to this specific provider block where the region is US East one, and so on. So let's also go ahead and quickly try this out. Now in fact, before we do that I'll quickly do a Terraform destroy with auto approve. Great. Now we'll modify our code here. So now what we'll do I'll add a provider and I'll say AWS. So this refers that we are referencing to the AWS provider block. And then you specify the alias. So let's say the prod firewall I want to create it in US region. So I'll say dot USA. Similarly for the second I'll say provider is equal to a AWS dot. This time we'll be using the Mumbai region. So I'll specify Mumbai. All right I'll save the change. Let's clear the screen. Let's verify if our code is proper. Once. Then you can go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve. All right. So the security group is created. Now let's first switch to the Mumbai region Rthy. And here you see we have the staging underscore firewall that is created. Now let's switch to the Virginia region here. In the security group you see we have the prod firewall that is created here. All right. So I hope with this you understood the importance of the alias meta argument. Again from the exam perspective, at a high level overview, you should know about what this alias block allows us to do. And from real world perspective also it gives good amount of flexibility based on the requirements. So with this we'll conclude today's video.