Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the default tags that you can add as part of the AWS provider. Now in AWS, as part of the best practice, it is recommended that organization follows a standard tagging strategy for all of the resources that are created. For example, if you see there are two resources in the screenshot, both of them have tags. Now what are the benefit of tags? There are a lot of benefits. One of the important benefit is related to the auditing part. So just from looking into the tags associated with the resource, you can quickly identify which team is managing it. Many times what happens in organizations is that you do not really know which team is managing what resources. So if you come across one specific resource, say there is one EC2 instance. It happened in one of the organization. So we had one EC2 instance with a very large instance type, and the billing was quite high. So we were trying to find who was the owner of that EC2 to instance since a week or two, but we were not really able to find it. So what manager told hey, shut down the EC2 instance, the owner will automatically come. And we did shut down the EC2 instance and within 30 minutes the appropriate owner came stating that the application is not working. Now, the reason why we were not able to find the owner of the EC2 instance was because it was an old EC2 instance and it was not really tagged. So if you have tag like team is equal to security and so on, it becomes easier for everyone to audit the specific resource. There are also multiple benefits related to access control. So you can create policies for a user so that he can only modify the resource that has a team of security and so on. So generally nowadays you will see an organization whenever they create the resource, they manually add the tags as part of the resource that they create. However, whenever you manually add the tag associated with the resource, there is always a room of not following the right standard. For example, it can happen that whatever tagging standards that organization has set, they are not followed. For example, if you look into these two resources, one has a tag of team is equal to security, second has a tag of environment is equal to production. So different resource has different set of tags. And this is generally which is not really recommended. What you want. You want to have a standard set of tags for all of the resources in your organization. So generally when resources are created through Terraform and say tagging standards are not followed, then during the PR in the git repository it can be improved upon. But still this is one of the pointers that you might face. Now, the second issue that you will face is that let's say everyone is following the right tagging standards. So these are the three tags based on the environment based on the team. The tag value will change. So let's say everyone is following it consistently. Now what is the problem that is happening. Each resource has a certain level of tags, and three tags are just for an example. Sometimes the resource even has 5 to 10 tags. Now, when you have so many tags that are added for each resource, what would happen? It will unnecessarily increase the overall code length. So in order to overcome these issues, the AWS provider, it allows you to add the default tags at a provider level itself. So now what will happen is all the resources that will be created through the provider will automatically inherit the default tags that you add at a provider block here. Now one of the benefits here again, it is designed to replace the redundant per resource tags configuration that we were seeing. So instead of adding the same tags in multiple resources, you can just add it at a provider level. And that should do. All right. So let's do one thing before we proceed further. Let's go ahead and try it out. Now for today's practical we have a simple file called as default hyphen tags.tf. This file has two resources. One is security group, second is IAM user. Now we know the importance of tags. So we'll go ahead and add tags for both the resources. Now since tags are one of the best practices generally even in the documentation you will see whatever example that they provide. They also have the tag related example here. So for security group also they have this tag for IAM user. If you see also they have the tag example. Good part here is that the overall format remains to be the same. So all you do you add a tag with a key and a value. So let's go ahead and try it out. So within here I'll say I'll add a tag. Now within the tag let's just call it as team as security. We'll add multiple key value pairs managed I'll say Terraform and env I'll say production. Alright. We'll just align all of them same. We'll just add it for the IAM user as well once. Then you can save the change. Now from the CLI. I'll quickly do a terraform. Apply with auto approve. Great. So the resources are created. Now just to verify, you can just open up one of the resource that have been created. You can go to the appropriate region that has been set. If you go to security group you have the demo firewall within here. If you look into the tags you have three tags that are added here. Now as we are discussing, you also have the option of the default tags that you can add as part of the provider. So let's explore that. So what you have to do you have to add a provider block. Within here you can say default tags. And within here whatever tags you want you can just copy it here. Let's align things properly and I'll save this. Now once the default tags are added. In fact before we do that, Let's just comment out this code and we'll just destroy the resources that we have created. Once this is done, you can just uncomment the provider block. And since you have added the default tags here, you can just remove it at a per resource level and I'll save the change. Once this is done, you can again do a Terraform apply with auto approve to verify if tags are added. If you see, you can see the tags that are being added at a resource level. So again the resource are created. So if you have to re verify let's refresh this. This is a demo firewall. And again you have the tags that are associated. Great. So I hope with this you understood the basics of default tags at a provider level. Now one of the question that comes is hey I have multiple resources that are being managed by a provider. Some resource are managed by different teams, so not all of the resource are managed by a team of security. Some resource might be managed by a team of networking. So if I add a default tag at a provider level, this will create a confusion at a later stage which we do not really want. So in order to overcome this issue, there is an option where you can override the default tags and this is a great benefit. So now what you can do is whatever tags that you have added at a provider level, let's say you want to override this team of security to team of networking. So what you will do in the resource where you want to override this tag, you can add the tags section again with the same key name which is team with the appropriate value. In this case it is networking. So now what will happen is for the security group. For team the value will be networking. But for others like manage and env the value will be taken from the default tags itself. So whatever tags are not mentioned as part of the resource, it will take the tags from the default tags here and whatever tags that are mentioned here, and the tag key matches the one in the default tags. Then the tags that are added in the resource will take the higher precedence here. Alright, this is one important part to remember. The tags in the resource level will always take the higher precedence. So let's go ahead and also try this out. Now let's say that security group is not managed by the team of security. It is managed by team of networking. So now if you explicitly specify the tag say team is equal to networking at a resource level. Let's try this out. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan once again. So this time you see it is modifying this tag by changing the team of security to networking. We'll also verify with Terraform. Apply auto approve. Great. So now if you want to verify, you can just refresh this. And the tags are not updated here. So you can just refresh the page. In that case if you open up the firewall again, if you look into the tags, you have the team of networking. Great. So I hope with this you also understood the basics of how you can override the default tags at a per resource level. Now, before we conclude one important point that you have to keep a note of is that the functionality that we were discussing of default tags is supported in all the resources that implement tags. Now many times what happens is in AWS certain services do not support tags. So this functionality of default tags is supported for all the resources where tags can be implemented in AWS. And there is one exception of AWS Auto Scaling Group resource because this is more of a dynamic in nature. So that's a high level overview. And with this we will conclude today's video.