Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can assume a specific IAM role to fetch the credentials to create the resources through the AWS provider in Terraform. Now, the concept and the overall implementation that we will be discussing in today's video is very important from production perspective, because in most of the medium to large scale organizations, you will see that you will be assuming a role to fetch the credentials for the resource creation. So with this said, let's get started. Now, as we are discussing in many of the organizations, you will have multiple set of AWS accounts. So for each AWS accounts, you will not generally have the access and secret key hardcoded as part of your config and credentials file. Instead, you will be using the concept of IAM role assumption to fetch the credentials to create the infrastructure accordingly. So let's understand this with a simple diagram where. Let's say that you want to create two resources in AWS environment. One is the EC2 instance, and second one is the S3 bucket. And the user that wants to create these resources is Alice. Now the issue is Alice does not really have permission to create S3 bucket and EC2 instance. However, in the organization there is a IAM role and this IAM role has full access towards the S3 service and the EC2 service. Using the IAM policy of S3 Full Access and EC2 Full Access. So if Alice user wants to go ahead and create this resources, what Alice user can do. Alice user can assume the role and using the roles credentials, the Alice user can connect to the AWS environment and create the resources accordingly. And this is a quite common architecture that you will see in larger enterprises. So let's go ahead and have a quick demo to understand this specific workflow. Now before we look into the demo, one small thing that you need to understand that the entire workflow can be achieved by adding the assume role parameter as part of the provider of AWS. So here you have to specify the role Arn this. So this is the role are in here. So basically whatever Arn this IAM role has you have to specify this role Arn so that Terraform, using Alice's access and secret key, can assume this role. It can fetch the credentials and use that credentials to perform the operations. All right. So this is the reason why as part of the provider block you add the role here. Anyways we'll have a separate practical related to this. In today's video we'll have a quick demo. Now for today's demo we have a Terraform user. Now the access and secret key associated with this user is hardcoded as part of my aws cli. So Terraform will be using this user's credentials to perform the operation whatever it would find in the TF file. Along with that, we also have a IAM role called as admin role. And if you see this IAM role has an administrator access. This Terraform user does not have an administrator access. The only access that this user has is to assume this specific IAM role. That is the only access that is being given to the Terraform user. So for today's demo, I have a very simple resource of security group that is added as part of this file. Let's go ahead and try to do a Terraform apply. So let's quickly open up the terminal. I'll go ahead and I'll do a terraform. Apply with auto approve. As we know, Terraform user does not really have the permission to create the resource. And this is the reason why. Immediately here also you got an error. So if you look into the error it states that the Terraform user is not authorized to perform the create security group because no policy allows this permission. So this is the first aspect of the workflow. The second aspect is we will use the user to assume this specific role. And using this roles credential, the user can go ahead and create the resources accordingly. So in order to do that, I already have a readymade code associated with this. Again, this is a demo video. We'll be discussing things in more detail during the practical at an overview. Just note that we have told Terraform that the user of Terraform does not really have a permission. However, this is the role that has the administrator access permission available. So Terraform will go ahead and use the access and secret key of the Terraform user, so it will use the access and secret key of this user that is configured as part of this CLI. To assume this role, it will fetch the credentials of this role, and those credentials will be used to create the resource accordingly. All right. Let's go ahead and also try it out. So earlier if you see we got an error. So from a CLI terminal let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply auto approve once again. So this time you see it is working as expected. Great. Now from what I have observed for many of the students, this specific concept is not clearly understood on what exactly happens when we say that the user has assumed a role and using roles credentials, the terraform is performing the operation. So let's understand this also. So I'll clear the screen. Now if I type the command of AWS SQS assume role, I'll specify the role Arn. So let's copy this role Arn. And I'll also specify the role session name. let's just call it as KP Labs Hyphen demo. So when I press enter we got an error stating the following arguments are required. Hyphen. Hyphen. Role. Session. Name. So we made a small typo here. So let's just add an additional S here. So now you see Terraform behind the scenes will also do the same thing. Now when you run this command you see you got a new set of access and secret key associated with the admin role. So you have the access key here. You have the secret key. So this is the secret key. And you have the session token over here. Now if you see we are supplying two things here. One is the role Arn. This is the role Arn. Same thing in Terraform. Also we are supplying the role Arn. And the next thing that we are supplying is the session name which is this. And same thing you will see over here. So behind the scenes as we know Terraform will also do an STS assume role. It will fetch the credentials and the resources will be created using these set of credentials. Great. So I hope with this you understood the basic concept of the assume role in Terraform.