Hi everyone and welcome back. So today is going to be the practical video where we are going to look into the exact steps that are required to go ahead and achieve the assume role related operations as part of the Terraform. So for today's practical we have a very simple file called as assume hyphen role dot f which creates a simple security group. You will find this in our GitHub page. Now if you look into this specific workflow there are two important entities involved. One is the user. Second is the IAM role. So user can be any user based on your requirements. So generally when you configure your AWS CLI, for example, if you just do a Terraform apply the resource will be created. Why? Because the users whose access and secret keys are configured in aws CLI, that user has the appropriate permissions. So in my case that user is Terraform. So if I quickly open the Terraform user you see the Terraform user has the administrator access and the secret key whatever is configured here. Let me also show you. So if you just run the AWS configure command, the access key ends with DHS. And the same you will see over here. So this means that the Terraform user is configured in the AWS CLI. Now at this stage, since the Terraform user has administrator access, if we do Terraform apply it will work perfectly well. However, we do not really want that. What we want. We want IAM role to have the appropriate access, and the Terraform user should assume the IAM role to perform the appropriate operations. So first thing that we need is the IAM role. So what you can do in the IAM console. So for example you can just open up the IAM console from here. From the IAM console you can go to roles. You can create a new role. This role is of AWS account. Now again note that this role and this user, if they are in the same AWS account, you can select this AWS account. If this role belongs to a different AWS account, then you will have to choose another AWS account. Just for simplicity, we are not really going into the cross-account IAM roles. We will be using the role with this account only. I'll click on next for the role. Just for simplicity, I'll add the administrator access. I'll click on next the role name. Let's just call it as Terraform assume role and I'll create the role once the role is created. Let's go to users. Now for the Terraform user. We'll go ahead and will remove the permission of administrator access once the permission is removed from the CLI. If you try to do terraform, apply with auto approve. Let's quickly do that. As expected, it is showing an error stating that the Terraform user is not authorized to perform the Create security group operation. So now, as we know, the Terraform user does not have permission. So now what we want we want the Terraform user should assume this specific role. And using this roles credential the Terraform can create the resources accordingly. So first thing that you will need is the role details. So let's just search for the role Terraform assume role. So this role contains the role Arn. This role Arn is very important. Now what we need to do in the provider block we will have to specify the role Arn that needs to be assumed. So generally for that you can go to the AWS provider documentation. There should be an example here. Let's go a bit down. You see there is an example of assuming an IAM role. I'll copy this and I'll add it over here. And let's remove this part first important part is the role Arn. So the role Arn will copy from here. We'll add it here. Second is the session name. You can give any name here. Just for simplicity. I'll just give KP lab session here and I'll save the change once this is done. When you go ahead and do a terraform, apply auto approve. Let's see if this works or not. And again you're getting an error. What is the error. It states cannot assume the IAM role. And you see Terraform is not authorized to perform STS. Assume role on this specific role. So what this means whatever users who's access and secret keys are configured, that user does not have permission to assume this role or to connect to this role. So this Terraform user should also have the permission to connect to this specific role. This is important, otherwise it will not really work. So what we need to do at the user level also we will have to add a policy. We'll create a inline policy here we'll click on JSON. And within here I'll go to the AWS documentation. AWS documentation generally has the base policy. I'll just copy the base policy here. Again. I'll be adding it in GitHub page so that you can reference from there. I'll also be adding the appropriate documentation link for you to refer. So I'll copy paste the policy. Now one thing that you have to do is you have to change this resource to the arn of the role that we want to assume. And that's about it once. Then you can just click on Create Policy. We are getting a policy name required. That is fine. I'll just say assume Terraform role something meaningful and it will create the policy. So once this policy is associated with the Terraform user this time it should work. So let's clear the screen. We'll run the Terraform apply with auto approve once again. And you see we have successfully created the resource. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the practical workflow of assuming an IAM role through Terraform. And with this we will conclude today's video.