Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss at an overview about the debugging aspects related to Terraform. Now before we look into the debugging related pointers, first, it is important for us to understand what debugging really means. Now, at a very high level overview, debugging is the process of finding the root cause of a specific issue. It can be any issue not just related to Terraform. Let's say you are not able to log in to a Linux server. So what might be the issue related to that? Is it related to your client? Is it related to the firewall. Is it related to the network? Is it related to the remote system and so on. So the entire process of finding the root cause of a specific issue is debugging. Now generally, if you are working in a wide variety of domains like system administration, DevOps, domain, etc., then 30 to 40% of your time will go into debugging. For example, let's say you are working as a system admin now installing a software in a Linux system is very easy. You can use yum install followed by a software name. Now the installation is simple. But if a specific tool or a software is not working as expected, then in such case most of the time goes into debugging. To understand how can you make it work? Maybe you might have not read the documentation correctly, maybe you might have made some mistake in the configuration and so on. So let's take a simple example related to SSH to understand the entire process. Now one important part that you need to remember is that one of the important requirement whenever you are debugging anything, is that you should have a detailed log. And getting a detailed log differs based on the application that you are using. For example, if you are using SSH, then there is a way in which you can get a detailed log that explains you what exactly is happening behind the scenes, which you might have not otherwise seen. So in fact, let's also quickly look into it now for today's demo. I have a test server that I have launched in DigitalOcean. Again, you don't have to do that. I just wanted to show you a few things so that our base is clearly understood before we jump to terraform aspect. So let's go ahead and quickly log in to the server. So from the CLI I'll just specify the key through which the instance was launched from. I'll just specify the password associated with the private key. And if you see I am currently logged in to the server, now let's assume I want to see a more detailed log related to what exactly is happening in this specific step. Because by default, after I entered the SSH followed by the key, it asked for a password and that's it. I was able to log in. Now let's clear the screen. Let's run the same command with hyphen v option. So this time you see before it is asking for the password, you have so much information that it is showing here. All right. Now let's go ahead and quickly login to the server. So this is where we are logged in. So all of these logs that you see these logs becomes much more important specifically when things are not working well. So let me in fact I'll just copy from here to the last event before we were logged in and in the notepad I'll just paste it. So here you see total number of lines are 57. Now in a similar way let me just log out I'll clear the screen. Let's run the same command with higher amount of verbosity. So I'll say v v v v I'll press enter. Let's go ahead and specify the password. And this time the number of messages are much more higher than compared to the earlier one. So in fact let's go at the start. So this is the verbosity. Let's copy this. Let's compare the number of lines. I'll copy this. So earlier we had 57 lines. Now if I paste it you see we have 170 lines. So depending upon the verbosity level the amount of details that you will get will also differ accordingly. And in most of the cases this amount of verbosity is not really required. But sometimes if things are not really working as expected, you are not able to login to the server. There seems to be some client side issue. In such case, it is important to see what exactly is happening behind the scenes. And this is where the verbosity helps you. All right, so this is what the first pointer really means which states that one of the important requirement as part of debugging is getting the detailed log through the log. You will be able to identify most of the issues as part of a specific tool. Now let's go ahead and discuss about the debugging aspects in Terraform. Now, similar to the SSH verbosity that we were just discussing, even Terraform, it allows us to set a wide variety of log levels for getting detailed logs for debugging purposes. And it is important for us to understand on how we can go ahead and get these set of logs. So generally, just for an example here, I have done a Terraform plan. Now we know what Terraform plan gives us as an output in a standard manner. However this time you see it is also showing us a lot of information like info, debug, trace and so on. So all of this information again it is very helpful to identify the issue specifically in the core Terraform binary. If there are any bugs or things are not working as expected. So at a high level overview, it is important for us to understand what exactly these are and how we can also generate the detailed logs in Terraform Now at an overview, you have to keep a note that in case if you want a detailed logs related to the Terraform, you can enable it by setting the TF underscore log environment variable. Now there are multiple log levels that are available, and depending upon the log level that you choose, the verbosity will differ. For example, in the SSH client, we saw that hyphen v provided us with 57 line of events. Hyphen v v v, v provided us with almost 150 line of events. So depending upon the verbosity that you want, the value of the TF log can also be adjusted accordingly. So at an overview there are multiple set of log levels that are available. You have error, you have warning info, debug and trace. Trace will provide you the most detailed logs here. So this specific table is in order of decreasing verbosity. So the trace provides the highest level of verbosity. So before we explore the details further, let me go ahead and quickly show you a practical example on how exactly this would look like. Now, from the terminal, if I do a Terraform plan, note that this is a demo video. We are going to have a separate practical video where we will understand things in more detail. So at this stage, let us understand things at an overview. And this is the reason why I am not showing you the code as well. Now, for any resource that you have as part of your folder, whenever you do a Terraform plan, it will show you what exactly it will create along with the attributes. This is a normal output that we have regularly seen. Now let's clear the screen and in the second step we will see on what happens if you enable detailed logging or debug logs as part of Terraform. Now at this stage our log level is set to info. Now once it is set to info again, we will discuss about the practical aspect on how you can set a specific log level in the next video. At this stage, let's go ahead and look into it at an overview. So when you do a Terraform plan. So this is how the info log level really looks like. So here it is showing you the Terraform version. It is showing you the go runtime version and so on. So again this is quite helpful. So let's copy this till here and in our notepad I'll just paste it. So at this stage the total number of lines are 16. As we were discussing that TF log can have multiple set of values trace which provides the highest level of verbosity. So at this stage we had info. Let's try trace. Now as part of second example I have the log level set to trace. And this time when you do a Terraform plan you see the amount of output is much more bigger. So let's go a bit up. So this is all the output here if you see it is quite detailed. So this time, let's go ahead and copy the entire output to see how many lines are present just for us to give an overview. In fact, it is taking me around 20 to 30s just to scroll and select the number of output events here. All right. So let's add till here. So earlier we had 16 lines. This time if I paste it we have 782 lines. So from here I hope you understood that depending upon the log level that you choose, the amount of verbosity of events that gets captured will also differ. Now the question that comes is why do you need such a detailed output? Now note that in normal scenarios you will not need such a detailed output. But in case if there are any issues, if things are not working as expected, many a times there are bugs related to the Terraform binary. By itself, there are bugs related to the provider. Then in such case, these detailed logs proves to be very useful to understand how things are working in your system and to find out the core issue related to the binary and the provider plugins. All right. So this part, the TF underscore log followed by the value I hope you understood here. The second important part that you need to remember is the TF log path. Now as we were discussing that whenever you have the TF underscore log set to a specific verbosity, you get the detailed output here. But if you have something like 70 lines that we saw for trace, it becomes very difficult to go ahead and copy and paste it and so on. So what you might really want is you run Terraform, plan all of the output, instead of it appearing as part of the standard out, it should be stored to a file and you get a normal Terraform plant related output as part of your CLI. This is a much more better approach so that you don't really have to scroll. You can directly open the file in which this specific log is stored, and you can analyze it at a later stage. So this specific aspect is controlled using the TF log path environment variable. Now as part of this third example, I have the TF log path environment variable that is set in my system. And I also have the TF log which is set to trace. Now in this case if I do a Terraform plan you see we got a normal output. However, the actual trace related logs are stored in a separate file. Let me show you that. Now if you see in the KP labs Terraform there is a file called as Terraform. Let's open this. And this is the actual output. All right. In fact, let me just delete this file. I'll just delete it. All right. There are no files here. Again, if I do a Terraform plan we got the normal output. And this time, you see we have the Terraform file here. And this is where the entire trace related output goes. So this is a much more better scenario. All right. So as part of debugging in Terraform these are the two important areas that you have to remember. TF log to set the verbosity of the logs that you want to capture. And the TF log path to specify the file in which the logs will be stored, so that they are not part of the standard out. So that's a very high level overview about the debugging aspects of Terraform. Again, we'll be discussing about this in more detail in the upcoming videos. So with this we'll conclude today's video.