Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video we were discussing about the debugging aspects of Terraform at a high level overview, we were discussing about the two important environment variables that needs to be set. First one is the TF underscore log. Second one is the TF underscore log underscore path. So today is going to be the practical video where we will go ahead and set both of these as part of the environment variables. And we'll see on how it makes the overall difference. Now for today's demo I have a file called as tf hyphen logs tf a very simple file. What exactly it does is it creates a new file called as foo dot txt in the same folder from which we have run the terraform. Apply. Now, I have already done the terraform init so that it can save us time. Now if you do a terraform plan at this stage, as expected, we get the normal output of terraform plan. But in case if you want to get the detailed log then what you need to have, you need to have the TF underscore log environment variable set. Now the way in which you can set the environment variable. Again, it differs depending upon the operating system that you use. So the command for windows and the command for Mac OS and Linux will also differ. So in today's video we'll explore both the windows one and the Linux one. So the command that we use in Linux the same command will also work for Mac OS. So the overall part will become much more simpler. So first we'll start with the windows one. Then we'll explore the Linux one. So Mac users can also use the Linux based command. Now for the windows command. The way in which you can easily set the environment variable is using the set command. So you just say set followed by the environment variable. In this case it is tf underscore log followed by the value. Now we were discussing that associated with the TF log. There are multiple log levels that you can set. Error warning info debug trace. So first we'll go ahead and use info. So now what you can do you can say is equal to info and press enter. That's about it. So now when you do a Terraform plan, you see along with the standard output you also got the info related logs. This is one part. Now for a Linux system I am already logged in to a Linux server. macOS users can also follow the same step. Now just to verify I already have Terraform that is available here. And if I just do a Terraform plan you get a very similar output that of windows. So for Mac users you can run the export command. Same for Linux. So you can say export followed by the name of environment variable followed by the value. In this case it is info. So the only difference is in windows you use set command. In Linux you use export command. So now if you do a Terraform plan here similar to windows you see this time we are getting the info logs. Now let's say that info logs are not sufficient in troubleshooting the issue. You want more detailed logs? So now all you will do, you just say set TF underscore log is equal to trace. So now instead of info your TF underscore log has the verbosity of trace. If you just do a Terraform plan you see this time you got the trace events as well. So this is an easier point to remember. So I hope with this you understood the TF log. The second part is the TF underscore log underscore path. So in case if you do not really want to see all of these logs as part of the standard out you want, that log should be stored in a specific file. Then you can add the TF underscore log underscore path environment variable. So I'll say tf underscore log underscore path followed by the name of the file where it should be stored. I'll just say terraform dot txt here. Now if you do a Terraform plan the plan is working perfectly well. Behind the scenes. All of the trace logs are stored in this specific file. So if you open up the CPP labs Terraform folder you see a terraform dot. TXT has been created. If I open this, you see these are the entire verbose events related to the trace log level. Similarly, even in Linux system you can say export tf underscore log underscore path is equal to say terraform dot log. Just do a Terraform plan. Now as expected we got the output. And if I just do a ls you will see that we have terraform dot log. If I just do a cat on terraform dot log you got this specific logs. Now one more thing that you need to remember is that this specific approach that we have used, offset and export. These approaches are a temporary way to set a environment variable. For example, when I do a set, this will set the environment variable for the session. So for example let me delete this specific File. I'll open up a new command session here. And in this specific session, if I do a Terraform plan, I got the output. But you see, the log file is not present. So if I just refresh the log file did not get created. So since we had set the environment variable in this specific command line session, only if you run the command from this specific terminal will this specific environment variable will come into effect. So for example, if I just do a Terraform plan from here. Now you see terraform dot. TXT file got created. Now this specific approach is useful primarily because for not all of the commands you need such a detailed logs. So only when you need a detailed log, you can run the set or an export set of commands to temporarily get environment variable for the session. Go ahead and use that to get the logs and close the terminal. And if you reopen it then the environment variable will not come into effect. Now in case if you want environment variable to be set permanently. So generally in windows you can go to the advanced system settings in the environment variable. You can go ahead and set one more environment variable here. Let me also show you again note that this is a windows specific approach. So I'll say TF underscore log value I'll just say info I'll click on okay okay. And okay. So now the older terminals will not have this effect. So you have to open up the new terminal. Now whenever you do a Terraform plan by default it will show you the verbosity of info primarily because you have permanently set it as part of the environment variable. However, this part is not necessary and this is the reason why the temporary aspect of setting the variable using the set command is something that was shown as the primary way of achieving this. All right, so I hope with this from practical point of view, you understood both the TF log and TF underscore log underscore path and the importance related to it. So with this we'll conclude today's video.