Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss about the HashiCorp cloud platform. And the product of our interest is going to be Terraform. Now this is also referred to as HCP. And in the initial days we used to refer it to as Terraform cloud. So in case if you come across blogs or articles where it is mentioned terraform cloud, it means the same thing. The naming convention has changed. So with this, let's get started. Now at this stage in almost all of the practicals, we have been managing Terraform through CLI. So we have been running Terraform plan, apply, destroy and various areas related to Terraform. We have been managing it through CLI only now, although the CLI based approach works well and in almost all of the organizations that you will be working with, you will be using the CLI. So CLI based approach, you have to master it. This is like the most important part. However from the exam perspective it is important that we understand there is also an alternative GUI based approach that is available. And this GUI is made available through the product of HCP Terraform. So on the left hand side you see this is a standard CLI based approach. I am sure everyone is quite familiar with this. However, on the right hand side you see this is a screenshot of the HCP. So within here you can have multiple teams. So you have a team collaboration that can take place. And the plan stage, the apply stage. Everything can be done through the GUI. So here the CLI based approach is not really required. It is possible that you can use that, but you have a much more mature GUI based approach. And generally whenever you have a larger environments, you have a larger team collaboration, etc. this is where the HCP terraform can prove to be useful. Now, before we proceed further, I also wanted to show you the website. Now when we refer to as ACP. ACP is basically HashiCorp cloud platform. HashiCorp as we know has multiple set of products. Terraform is one of them. So HashiCorp again since it is acquired by IBM. Now, in the logo you will see that HashiCorp, an IBM company and in various aspects of documentation you will see name revision. For example, here it is referred to as IBM HashiCorp Cloud platform. Earlier you used to refer to it as HashiCorp Cloud platform. Alright, so slight naming changes you will see. Now one thing that I wanted to show you, as we know that HashiCorp has multiple set of products. Terraform is one of the products. So here you have the newer naming convention of IBM, HP, Terraform. Along with that, as we know, HashiCorp has various other products like you have Nomad, you have vault, you have boundary, you have console, etc. so you will see various aspects of this available as part of the HashiCorp cloud platform. Again, you will have to pay for them separately for this specific course. We are more interested in the Terraform and what are the features that it offers. Now at a high level overview HCP Terraform manages the runs in a consistent and reliable environment with various features like access control, private registry for sharing modules, policy controls and others. Now if you look into the screenshot, you have a plan stage that is finished after plan phase, you also have the cost estimation phase. After cost estimation, you can have various phases like policy checks to see if the resource that is going to be created meets the organization's standards, and so on. And then you can have the apply phase as well. So let's have a quick demo. This will make things much more clear on what are the benefits that the HCP Terraform provides. Now, currently I'm logged in to the HashiCorp cloud platform for the product of Terraform. So within here you see there are multiple workspaces that are available. You have a workspace of network projects, security project, you have demo, EC2 and so on. And for each project you will get the detailed information. Let me show you one of Network Project. Now again the run status of the demo EC2 is added. This is intentional. I just wanted to show you on how exactly things look like when it is successful, or when things have errored. Now for the network project. Let's quickly open this. This is how it really looks like. So as part of this specific project, it shows you what is the Terraform version that is used. Along with that, you can have multiple set of runs, right. So throughout the project you might be updating, other team member might be updating and so on. So for each run you will have the information. For example in here you see you have this specific run 43 minutes ago. Then you have multiple set of other runs that were planned a day ago. Now in the CLI when you run Terraform apply terraform plan, although at that stage you will be able to see through CLI. But what happens if multiple team members are updating the resource in their own local laptop? The Terraform plan output. The Terraform apply output. By default it is not really saved. So in case let's say after few days you want to see what exactly the Terraform plan Terraform apply output looked like. You will not have the output for that. However, if you are using Terraform you get the detailed list like when the run was triggered. And also if you'll quickly open this. You will see that the plan was finished. This way the outputs over here. So this is the new output. Then you have the apply that was finished. And in the output values of the apply you have this specific one. So detailed information is available. And also which user has approved or which user has run the Terraform apply. You will be able to see you have the demo user in organization. You will see the team member who has approved the apply and so on. This is one part. Second part is the state file. So when you are using the HCP terraform, the state file again is stored as part of the HCP platform. So you'll be able to see if I look into the state over here. Let's look into the latest one. So this is how the state really looks like. All right. So all of your state information will be available over here. You will be able to see what was changed what was not changed. This is very useful. Let's go back. So this is one part. Let me just go down. Let's see what other things are available. There are some advanced features like run triggers. We'll be discussing that at a later stage, but this is the basic introduction. Along with that, if you will see you will be able to create variables over here. So no need to add or define the variable values. For example some variable values are sensitive for example db password. So those are sensitive variable values or the access secret key etc.. So all of those things you will be able to create from here. And this will make your life simple. For example you can create an environment variable. You can mark it as sensitive. So you don't have to define the values like the sensitive values as part of the Terraform file. And this makes things much more secure in the larger organizations. Great. Now, one important part that I wanted to emphasize, because generally when we run Terraform plan, the folder in which we run the Terraform plan, that folder will have some tf file like EC2 instance or security group, etc.. Now the question that comes is for the HashiCorp cloud platform, where exactly is the TF file that is available. So here the most important part is the git. So this specific HashiCorp cloud platform if you will see. In fact let's go to version control over here. You see it is connected to the provider of GitHub and the repository is network project. Let me also quickly show you this. So in GitHub I have a project called as Network Project. And this project has the Main.tf file. So if I'll quickly open this over here you see this is where your code will reside. So this is one important part. And again this is a benefit because as soon as a new code gets committed to GitHub and maybe it is in PR stage or maybe it is approved, then you can ask the terraform which is part of the HCP, to auto trigger the run. Again, you have a lot of options that are available where the VCs trigger type can be branch based, tag based and others. So this is one point to note. Now let me also quickly show you the workflow. This will give us better clarity now if you will see at this stage the latest run has already applied and it was triggered an hour ago. Now, how things work as part of the ACP Terraform is that when you update the git project? Now again, there are a lot of configurations that you can change, but I'm typically showing you the workflow. So when you change something for example let's go ahead and add 9999. Let's click on Commit Changes over here. All right. So someone has committed new change as part of the project. So now if your integration and everything is proper then what will happen is the ACP Terraform can auto detect the change and it will run automatically. So let's quickly refresh the page. I have manually triggered the run, but you can automate this as well. So let's look into what it looks like. So here you have a run that is triggered and you have the git as the source. Now if you see you are in the policy checked stage and it is past, it is showing you the estimation cost charges and so on. So let's quickly look into this run over here. So at this stage the plan is finished. And the output you see it is stating one plan to change. If I quickly open this it is showing you 9999 and the cost estimation is finished. It is showing $0.00 per month. This is fine. The policies checks have passed and the apply is pending. So you can either confirm and apply. You can discard the run let's say confirm and apply and I'll say approve. Let's click on confirm plan. So now what will happen. The user has approved. The plan will be queued. And if everything is good the plan stage will be finished. And in the output you see you have 999, nine that is applied. This is one specific part. Now this cost estimation feature is very useful again for this specific code. For this specific code it is going to not cost us anything. But for the larger organization this is going to be very useful. Let me also show you this will give you better clarity. Now I have one more workspace called as demo EC2. All this workspace does is it creates the EC2 instance. Now if you see in this workspace a run has not passed. You see it is in the error stage. Let's look into what exactly this is all about. Now if you look into the run at this stage as we know it is error. So the plan stage, it is showing what exactly it plans to create. Now before we explore this, let's look into what exactly the code looks like. So this specific workspace is connected to a repository of HDP. And within here we have a simple EC2 file. Now in this file we are creating a simple EC2 instance. And the instance type is t two dot small. All right. Now why exactly this has errored out. Let's see. Now the first stage is plan. This is simple to understand. Terraform plan is something that we run. Second is the cost estimation stage. This again is very useful for the larger organizations. Now if you'll see it is stating that this specific EC2 instance with the local resource name of EC2. If you will see you have my EC2 over here. This is going to cost you this much at an hourly basis, and if you run it 24 over seven for one month, it is going to cost you $17. So this part again is very useful. Sometimes you see developers, they launch larger instance types. So if cost estimation stage they'll be able to see they might launch the smaller instance types. This is one part which is very useful. Second is the sentinel policies. So as part of your HCP Terraform the security team can set various set of policies. And if your code does not match these policies then it will fail. And at this stage you see as part of the Sentinel policy, it has failed. Why it has failed, it is because of this. Let's quickly explore this. What it says EC2 must have tags. Now what has happened is there is no tags that are added as part of the EC2 instance resource. Because there is no tag, it is failing as part of the Sentinel. Now again it is not necessary. Tags. The security team can also say that if the EC2 instance type is t two dot small, which is going to charge. Organization $17 fail. The plan user will not be able to move forward unless and until they use T two dot micro, which comes as part of the free tier. So a lot of customizations and everything you will be able to do as part of the Sentinel policies. This is also one part that you have to keep a note of, and if these checks pass, then apply can be run manually by the user based on the configurations that are set. So again there can be an approval team member who can review all of this. And he can approve the change and the apply will be completed accordingly. So lot of customizations are available as part of the HCP Terraform. Today we are just discussing it at an overview so that we understand the benefit that it provides. All right. So I hope with this you have started to understand the benefit that the HCP Terraform platform provides. Now again, there are a lot of configurations, lot of features that are available. Now let me quickly show you. So in settings you see you have locking notification related options that are available you have to access. This is the great benefit where you can add team and permissions for each. You can add the version control. So within here you can specify the repository. So if you see you can specify where is it specified here. So you can go ahead and change the source. Let me do that. So you can go ahead and specify GitHub and in GitHub. Also in case if you have multiple set of repository you can connect the repository to the ACP Terraform. So that whenever the code in that repository updates the ACP, Terraform can automatically run the plan stage, the cost estimation stage, and also the Sentinel policy checks to see if everything is good. If everything is good, then a team member can manually run the apply. Again, it depends on organization to organization and what kind of workflow is required. So again, we'll keep it simple at this stage. And as required we'll be discussing things and various features of Terraform in great detail in the upcoming set of videos. I hope with this you understood the basics and with this we'll conclude today's video.