Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss about the pricing aspect of ACP Terraform. Now, when someone is new to the ACP Terraform and they see all of the good features, all of the great GUI that comes with it, the standard question that comes is is it free or is it paid? So that is the important question. And today we are going to discuss about the pricing aspect of Terraform. So as you might have guessed it correctly, the ACP Terraform is not entirely free depending upon the usage and the features that are needed by the organization. There are multiple pricing plans that are available. So earlier the pricing plan and the naming convention was different. But now the HashiCorp has been acquired by IBM. So things have changed. So you have three primary pricing plans here essentials standard and premium. Each one has the different costs. Now one common thing that you will see is that the cost is at a per month level and a per resource level. So this is also one very important point that you have to keep a note of. Now again each plan will have its own set of features. Let's quickly explore this. Now as we were discussing and even in the demo of Terraform, we were discussing about various workspaces, various features that this provides. GUI is also good. Now one of the important aspect, as we know is the plan. So currently you see the plan and billing. The current plan that I have is essentials and it is primarily the billing account is pay as you go. So more the number of resources I create and manage, the more I'll have to pay, the less I manage, the less I have to pay. However, here the important part is that I am using the essentials plan. Now if you look into the pricing aspect of the product, let's quickly go a bit down. We are discussing about pricing aspects of Terraform. Again, different products will have different pricing. For example, if you look into the HashiCorp vault, it has a different pricing at a cluster level. So you have $0.62 per cluster per hour. So this is one point to note. Let's go and switch back to Terraform. So in the HCP Terraform over here as we know that there are three primary plants essentials standard and premium. Premium is the most expensive over here and it provides the most features. Now if we go a bit down let's look into the comparison table. So in the features over here you have a great set of table over here which shows you what features that are available in each plant. You have essential standard and premium. And again for enterprise you have the enterprise also. So the primary thing that you need to understand that essential plant has the least amount of features. If you want to have some important features then you will have to upgrade to the higher plants. For example if you go to visibility and optimization. So some very important features like audit logging this is primarily required if you have a larger enterprises or going through compliance and so on. So all of these features of audit logging, drift detection etc. they are not available in the essentials plant. You will have to go with the more expensive plan of standard, premium or enterprise for this to work. Similarly, you have policy and security. You have governance, risk and compliance, integrations and API. And again, there are multiple set of Subtabs that are available and it will show you what are the features that are available over here. So again this is one important point that you need to be aware of. Now sometimes what happens is that in the Terraform certification exam. They'll ask you what features are available as part of each plan. Now again, some of the standard features that we have seen. These are audit logging maybe drift detection policy code Airgap installation audit trail API. Just for simplicity, I've added a table so that you know that, for example, audit logging as we saw it is not available in Essential plan. You'll have to upgrade to the higher tier for this. Similarly, drift detection is not available in Essential Plan and so on. So this is one point that you have to be aware of. And again Airgap installation. This is like the offline installation in the places where internet is not there. We'll be discussing about this at a later stage also. So Airgap installation is available for enterprises. It is not available for the one where you have essential, standard and premium maintained at a HCP level. Along with that, you also need to be aware of how you can pay. As we know, pay as you go is one of the model. It is on demand usage based billing with no longer term commitment. If you are ready for a longer term commitment, then you have a flex based model where you have a single and multi-year plans that are available with preferred pricing for maximum ROI. And also you have an enterprise self manage which is fully customizable plan for maximum control. Now let me also quickly show you. So we discussed about essential standard and premium depending upon this specific one. For example, depending upon the current plan, in this case it is essential the overall features will change. This is one part. Now again, note that you also have the Terraform enterprise which is a self managed one. Here you also have a premium support and other customization that is available like airgap, installation, etc. this is a separate thing to note. Now discussing about pricing and how will you pay. Here you have a pay as you go. Then you have a flex and you have an enterprise self manage. So this is something that we were discussing over here. So I hope with this you understood the pricing aspect of Terraform. Now again note that at this stage it can change. Maybe at a later stage no one knows. But you will see as part of pay as you go, you get certain amount of credits to get started. So this is good. Otherwise the users will not really use enterprise will use, but the users who want to test various features of Terraform they will not really use. Since credits are available, things are much more easier for everyone to test.