Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video we were discussing about the basics and the benefits of the HCP Terraform. Now in today's video, we will go ahead and create our first account in the HCP Terraform so that we can explore a wide variety of features that this platform has to offer. So today we are going to open a free account in HCP post, which will be discussing about this specific platform in great detail. Now from Google. When you type HCP Terraform you will get to the official page here. Now what? This page states that HCP Terraform is available as a hosted service on this specific link, which is app.terraform.io. So you can open this and within here it is asking us to login or if you do not really have an account, you can also quickly create your first free account. So let's go ahead and create a free account here. So within here you'll have to specify a username. So let's just call it as KP labs user. Make sure you use the different username in the email address. You can provide your email. So let's specify mine. So generally I use instructors at CPP labs in. However, I am using the plus sign here so that I can create a newer account because I already have an existing account here with configured projects. So since we are starting from scratch, this is the plus XL that I have added here. And in the password. Let's configure the password and I'll click on Create account. So at this stage a verification link has been sent to the email. Let's verify. Now in the email you see it is asking us to confirm the email address. Since I have opened it in a different browser, I'll just copy this link and I'll add it here to the different browser. And our email address has been successfully confirmed. So now it is asking us to create our first organization. Now again we will be discussing about what organization means and inside organization. What are the other subcategories that are available. However, at this stage, make sure that your account is created post which will be discussing things in detail. So with this we'll conclude today's video.