Everyone. And welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to learn on how we can use the explicit installation method based on the file system mirror for getting the provider plugins. So this is going to be the practical video. Let's go ahead and get started. Now as we were discussing in the earlier video as well, where provider plugins can go ahead and it can be downloaded locally, and then you can reference to this specific path to fetch the appropriate provider plugins specifically from the servers, which do not really have internet connectivity at all. The step number one, as part of the practical, is to go ahead and download this provider plugins to a local file system directory. Now, in order to do that, there is a specific command of Terraform providers mirror, which downloads the providers that are required based on the current configuration, and it copies them to a directory in the local file system. For example, if you look into this command, you have Terraform providers mirror. Then you are specifying the exact path part where the provider plugins will be downloaded. So if you will see all of this, provider plugins must be in a central place. So this is the path of that central place where the provider plugins will be downloaded. Now at this stage we are not really specifying which provider plugins do we need. However you see it is still downloading the provider plugins of Google, of AWS or Azure and so on. And why is that the case? Because it fetches the details from the TF file, and based on that, the provider plugins are downloaded automatically. So let's go ahead and quickly try this out first. Now for today's video I have a file called as provider TF. If I open this file it's a very simple file. All we have done is a declaration of three provider AWS, Google and local. This is the base step. Now what you need. You need a specific folder which is going to act as a central location for all of the provider plugins, so let's just call it as filesystem mirror. You can give any name that does not really matter. So we have decided that in this folder, all of the important plugins that we need will be stored. So once you have done that let's go back to CP labs Terraform. Let's open up the terminal and we'll run the Terraform Providers mirror. And then you will specify the path where the plugins will be downloaded. Let's say C drive file system mirror I'll press enter. So now you see it is mirroring the provider of local of AWS. And we have one more of Google. So all of them will be mirrored to this specific path. So this is Google and that's about it. So now if you have to verify from a different tab you can just open up our folder. And you see within here you have AWS, you have Google, you have local. Now one more thing that you will notice is that the size of provider plugins are not that high. So generally if you look into the properties it is just 137 MB. So in case if you directly download it, in fact, let me also show you if you directly download it using the Terraform init. So it is taking time because it is downloading it from the internet. We can look into the size as well. So in that dot terraform folder, if you look into the size of AWS provider plugin, it is 616 MB. However, in the file system mirror, if you check the size here it is 137 MB. Why the difference? You see, because the compression is being used. All right. So this is the compressed file as you can see. However in the actual Terraform init if you will see you have the actual provider plugin file in an uncompressed format. Anyways, so let's go back to the CPP labs Terraform. We'll go ahead and we'll delete this specific files. So once this has been setup the step number two is to add the provider installation block. So this provider installation block will be part of the Terraform RC file. And within here you can configure things accordingly. Now again as we know that the Terraform RC file path changes based on operating system to operating system in windows it is different. In Linux it is different. So first let's go ahead and look into what exactly this means. So in the provider installation we are saying that we want to use a file system mirror. Then we are stating a include registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/star. So whenever Terraform intends to download provider plugins from this specific URL, instead of going to the internet to connect, you can go to this specific path of C drive plugin cache and try and fetch the provider plugins from this path only. All right. So if you have this kind of a setup and provider plugins are present in this path, it will directly fetch it from there. Let's also look into it. So in fact, before we look into it, I also wanted to show you on how you can find it from the documentation. Again, you will see it as part of the Terraform arc documentation here. Now let's go a bit down under the provider installation explicit installation method configuration. And within here you will get a basic syntax on how you can specify it as part of the Terraform RC file. Now again this is quite customizable. You can include you can have an exclude and so on. First let's keep it very simple. We'll specify a path and we'll specify the URL here. Now first let's do one thing. Let's go ahead. Now again this is for windows. I'll quickly fetch the path of the Terraform RC file location which should be in AppData. So in fact, in a PowerShell let's run this command. This is the path for Linux. It is your home directory. So let's go ahead and go to the path. And within here we have to create the Terraform RC file. So I'll say Terraform dot rc. And within here you can copy this block. In fact I'll also add this base in case if the documentation changes. So you can get it directly from our GitHub page. So just let me add it over here. Now we'll keep it simple. We do not really need the direct approach at this stage. Alright. So the first part that you have to keep a note is the path. Now again one important point that you have to keep a note is that for windows the file name is Terraform dot rc. In case if you are using Linux or Mac OS then it should be dot terraform rc file. So there is a little difference. And again in windows this file is in AppData and in Linux it must be placed within your home directory of the relevant user. So going back to our Terraform RC file, first thing that we have to replace is the path. So this path of file system mirror. This is what we'll be adding here. The second part is the include. So what does the include example.com mean here. So at an overview in fact you can get it from documentation also which states that any provider whose origin registry is example.com can be installed only from the file system mirror which is located at this path. All right. So in our case, since we are using the provider plugins like AWS local and so on, the registry path will not be example.com. In that case the registry path will be registry.terraform.io. All right. So this is going to be the registry path. So we can instead of this we can specify this registry path. Let's copy this. Let's just add it simply here. So what it states any provider plugin that Terraform is trying to download from this registry path don't go towards the internet. Fetch it from this specific file system mirror that is specified as part of the path. So this is the high level overview. Once you have specified this, let's save this. Let's go back to the Cape Labs Terraform folder. I'll open up the terminal. Now at this stage we do not really have the dot terraform folder or the log file. Now when you do a terraform init. Now in fact before we do that I just wanted to also show you I'll just disconnect my internet. Alright. The internet is disabled. In fact you can also verify. The internet is not present. So now if you do a terraform init at this stage we are getting an error. What it is stating cannot search seed drive and this path. So what exactly is happening here? In case if you are using windows, this is very important part to remember. You have to change it something similar to this. All right. Otherwise it becomes more of an escape character due to which the issue arises. So this is one thing that you have to keep a note of. Once you have done that, let's clear the screen. We'll do a terraform in it. And you see the error went away. And now you have a message stating unauthenticated. That is completely fine, but it was able to successfully download the appropriate provider plugins from our file system mirror directory. Great. So I hope with this you understood the step two as well. Now before we go with the step three, there is one thing that I wanted to share. Let's say in the file system mirror directory. I do not have this local provider plugins available. All right, I'll just delete it completely. So only two provider plugins are available. And also I'll just delete both of these files here. Now I'll just enable my internet connection and we'll open up the terminal. We'll go ahead and we'll do a terraform init. Now as we know that the AWS and Google provider plugins are already available in the file system mirror, but the local provider plugin is not available in the file system mirror. This is one important part. Second part that we had explicitly specified in Terraform RC file is that for any path where the provider plugins are being fetched from this location, do not go to this location. Instead, fetch it from this specific path. So now when you try to do a terraform init for the local provider plugin, what will be the approach that Terraform will take? Will it search this specific path if it does not find it? Will it go to registry.terraform.io or will it give an error? Let's explore that. So let's open up the terminal again. Let's do a terraform init. So the two provider plugins as we know it was able to quickly find but one specific provider plugin of HashiCorp local. It was not able to find it in this specific location. So even if internet is there, let me quickly show you, even if the internet is there based on the configuration that you have added as part of the provider installation block, it will not fetch the plugins from the internet. This is one point that needs to be noted. So in case if you need flexibility stating that okay, if something is not available, you can go ahead and try to fetch it from the origin. If the internet connectivity is present, then in such case the direct installation method type is also supported as part of the provider underscore installation, and this allows you to have certain level of flexibility. Now again note that when you have a air gapped system where no internet connectivity is present, then this will not really be helpful. But again, if you are testing it in local laptop or even in server, in case if a specific plugin is not available in the directory, you want it to be fetched because you do not really want your deployment to be errored out. So the direct method can be used. So let's also look into it. Now if you look into the documentation, it states that for direct request information about the provider directly from its origin registry and download over the network from the location that the registry indicates. So this is very straightforward description of this direct installation method. So what you can do within the provider installation itself, you can specify direct. And within the direct you can add one more include block. For this include block. Let's copy this. And within here just for simplicity we'll add local. All right. So after clearing the screen when you try to do a terraform init, let's see if we get an error. And we did not get an error. It is stating installing HashiCorp local and everything seems to be good here. And if you see this time it is stating signed by HashiCorp. Great. So I hope with this at a very high level overview, you understood the basics of what file system, mirror based installation type allows us to do. And again, the documentation is quite extensive related to the provider installation. We had looked into the file system mirror. We looked into the direct approach. And again there is a lot of configuration and settings that you can tweak based on the requirement. For example, we had used include. You can use exclude. If you are using exclude then the overall priority will change and so on. However, we are going to keep it very simple. We explored this direct based installation method and we explored this file system based installation method as part of today's video.