Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore the basic structure associated with the HashiCorp cloud platform for Terraform. Now, one of the first important component for HCP is the organization at an overview. The organization is basically a shared space for one or more teams to collaborate on a workspace. We are going to discuss about what workspaces are in just a moment. However, in your HCP there can be multiple organizations that you can add. For example, here you have my AP labs hyphen org, you have XYZ company, hyphen org and so on. So this is one part to note. So generally whenever you sign up for the HCP, one of the first things that it will ask you is the organization name. All right. This is the first part. Now one of the important part that you have to keep a note is that whenever it comes to the billing aspect, the HCP platform, it manages the billing at an organizational level. Very important part to remember. So it can happen that in each HCP Terraform console A user can belong to multiple organizations. As we saw that there can be multiple organizations that can be created, and each organization might have their own set of separate billing plans. The second important component is the workspace. Now, when we were working with Terraform as part of our local workstation or a local laptop, we used to have our own set of folder. For example, we have a folder of KP Labs Terraform. Inside this folder we have all of the files related to the project. We used to have our tf file variables definition, our project file, and so on. So when you discuss about ACP, you can consider this specific workspace to be set of relatable files required for your project to run. All right. So you can say that you have one folder and you have one workspace. You might have a different folder for a different project. Similarly you might have a different workspace for different projects. So before we proceed further, let's go ahead and quickly look into this from the demo perspective. So currently I am in the HCP platform and you see that I have multiple organizations that are available. So let's open up one of the organization in this case my KP labs hyphen org. Now if you see inside the organization you have workspaces and you have multiple workspaces. Here for example you have workspace of AWS hardening, Azure hardening, you have GCP hardening and so on. So you can also consider them to have a different set of code that might run in a different set of environments together. In case if you'd like you can also go ahead and create multiple set of workspaces. We'll be doing it in a practical video. At this stage, we are understanding this at a high level. Overview. Now the third important part that we need to remember is associated with the actual Terraform code. Now whenever we discuss about the offline model where we have our directory of KP labs, Terraform and all the associated code like variables.tf, s3.tf, EC2 WTF? All of them are part of the same directory. We go to that directory, we open up the terminal from here and we do a Terraform plan. However, when it comes to workspace, you do not directly upload each and every file to the workspace. Instead, you go ahead and you link your workspace to the appropriate git repository. So now your workspace can fetch the file from the git repository. And then it can do a terraform plan, terraform apply terraform destroy operations and so on. All right. So this is a very important part to remember. Let me in fact also show you this. So when we discuss about the workspace I have one workspace of HCP. Let me in fact open this. Now in this HCP workspace you will see that I have settings. In the settings I have version control and in the version control you see it states connected to VCs. What is the provider? The provider is GitHub and what is the repository? Repository is HCP, so this workspace is connected to a TCP repository in GitHub in case if you would like. You also can go ahead and have multiple other sources as well. For example, not only GitHub, you have GitLab supported, you have Bitbucket supported. Azure DevOps is also supported here. All right. So I hope with this at an overview, you understood the basic concept of workspace and how it connects to the appropriate git repository to fetch the code. Apart from that, it is also important for us to understand the difference between a workspace and directory. I have also attached the screenshot directly from the HashiCorp documentation for everyone to quickly review. So now if we quickly compare for Terraform configuration when we use the normal Terraform CLI that we have been doing in many of the videos, the actual Terraform configuration, it lies on the disk. So in our KP labs Terraform folder, typically however, when we discuss about ACP as we are discussing, you can link it to the version control repository. The second important part is the variable value. We used to have the.tf vars file, and so on. However, in HCP terraform, instead of defining this, you can directly add it as part of the HCP Terraform workspace itself. Similarly, state file. Also by default, when you run Terraform in your local laptop, the terraform.tf state file gets stored in the same folder. When we discuss about HCP Terraform, you don't really need to worry. HCP takes care of it and it is at a workspace level. Similarly, when we discuss about credentials and secrets, when you discuss about local laptop, you have to manage it through shell, environment or prompts. When we discuss about HCP Terraform, they are stored as sensitive variables. Now, in fact, let me also quickly show you this. So generally when we discuss about workspace. In fact let's go out here to our main workspace. You see you have certain other tabs. For example you have the state tab. Apart from that you have the variables tab. So in the variables here you can go ahead and manually add a variable in case if you'd like. For example, I can add a variable and a variable value. The next important component is the project. Now project basically allows you to organize your workspace into groups. For example, you have a security team project. Now in the security team project you have three workspace as your hardening, GCP hardening, and AWS hardening. So let's also explore this. Now generally let's go back to the workspaces that we have. So here you see you have multiple set of workspaces. Here you have demo workspace Hkp workspace and so on. Each workspace is associated with a specific project. For example if you explore project there are multiple projects that are available. One of the project is Security Team Project. So if I quickly open this project, you will see all of the related workspace. Now before we conclude, let's look into some of the pointers to keep a note of associated with project. First one is that the overall structure of your organization based on the ownership teams and all can be defined using project, so this becomes much more beneficial on the longer run. Specifically, if you have much more larger teams that are working in individual set of components. And second point is that using the standard edition, not the free tier, using the standard edition, you can give teams access to group of workspaces using projects. Again, note that not all of the features are available for all of the tiers specifically for the free tier, so the higher the tier you go by paying the price more features, you will get one important feature that you will get when you upgrade to the higher tier is the team management. This is absolutely essential for larger organization. However, if you are individually working in HCP, Terraform for your own set of project or for a smaller set of projects, then you don't really need the complexity of team and governance feature that HCP also provides. So that's a high level overview about some of the important features and components as part of the HashiCorp cloud platform. And with this, we will conclude today's video.