Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing about the basic structure associated with the HashiCorp cloud platform. We discussed the basics of organization, the basics of workspace, as well as the basics of projects. So in today's video, we are going to go ahead and create all of these components as part of our HCP account so that we understand the overall workflow. So going back to our new HCP account, the first thing that it is asking us to create is the organization. So let's go ahead and create the organization. Let's just call it as example hyphen KP labs hyphen org. And I'll create the organization here. Now once the organization has been created, you see there are multiple options that are available related to projects related to workspace related to registry. And you also have wide variety of settings that are available that you can configure. However, we are going to keep things simple. So first let's go ahead and quickly create a project because at this stage, by default a default project is created. So let's create a project. Let's just call it as Terraform Learning. I'll create this project. All right. As soon as I created this project, it is asking us to create our own set of workspace. Now sometimes what happens is the guy keeps on changing. So let's go back to the projects. In fact, it is not allowing us to do so. Let's open the projects from here. So sometimes there are small issues with the guy which we need to get adapted with anyways. So currently we are in the Terraform learning project in case if you open this you can create your workspace from here. Let's go back to the workspace and from this workspace tab. In fact, again it is not allowing us to click. Let's quickly refresh this. All right. So now in the workspace tab you can go ahead and create the workspace. Let's create the workspace. Whenever you create a workspace from outside you can specify which project this workspace will belong to. I'll say Terraform learning. And I'll click on create. Now generally whenever you create a workspace there are three workflows that you can select version control, CLI driven and API driven. The one that we are going to use is version control, but not in today's video. This will require its own separate video as there are a lot of learnings here. However, let's also explore various other features of Hcpi. One of the very important feature is the registry. Many of the organizations, specifically the larger enterprises, they will have their own set of modules, their own set of providers, and so on. So when you have these kind of requirements, you can use the private registry that the HCP Terraform provides. You don't have to create your own registry. This is part of the HCP here. The next important part is associated with the settings. So here you can go ahead and look into the generic settings. You can also explore the plan and billing. As we were discussing. Currently we are in the free plan where the resource limit is 500. In case if you would like, you can also switch to the higher plan here. However, most of the things we will be able to achieve using the free plan, so we'll stick with that in case if you would like. You also have the user. You can also invite multiple users specifically when there are multiple users as part of the team. And again, there are a lot of other settings that are available. We'll be discussing about this when required. All right. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the basics of organization, the basics of workspace, which will be discussing in more detail in the appropriate video and the basics of projects. And with this, we'll conclude today's video.