Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video associated with the HCP Terraform, we are going to explore about the workspace related feature in detail. As we were already discussing in the earlier video the difference between a workspace and directory. We saw how a workspace gets linked to a GitHub repository or repository from any other provider as well, to fetch the code based on which the plan and the apply operation will work. And you also have its own set of variables, the state file and credentials. So let's go ahead and quickly explore the workspace and we'll check the entire workflow. So currently I am back to HCP Terraform. We have an organization of example KP labs. Org. Let's quickly open this now inside the workspace. Let's go ahead and create a workspace for a project that you might have. In this case I'll select Terraform Learning Project and I'll click on create. Now you have multiple set of workflows that are currently available. One of the commonly used workflow in the organization is a version control workflow. So this is where it will fetch the code from a specific git repository, and based on this your workspace operation will happen. So in order to test this workflow what we need we need a git repository. Now currently I am logged in to a test GitHub account that I have. In case if you do not have a GitHub account, you can go ahead and sign up for GitHub. And what we are going to do. We are going to create our repository here. So let's give a repository name. Let's just call it as KP Labs Terraform Learning. Just for simplicity we are going to make this repo public and we'll create a repository here. Once your repository is created we'll go ahead and we'll create a new file. So this is going to be a TF file. Let's just call it as ec2.tf. And here we need a basic code that can deploy an infrastructure. So currently I have a simple code that is available that will create a EC2 instance in a US East one region. Very important part to remember. Again, depending upon the region, the EMI id will change. So again I have committed the code as part of a GitHub repository so you can fetch it from there. Once you have added it, let's go ahead and commit the change. Arthur. All right. So now our GitHub repository has a simple file of ec2.tf. So now what we are going to do. Whatever workspace that we have created. We will link this workspace with our GitHub repository so that it can fetch the code. And the resources can be deployed accordingly. So going back to the ACP here we will select the version control workflow. Now there are multiple providers that are supported like GitHub, GitLab and so on. So I'll select GitHub and I'll select this github.com. So since I'm already logged in it has auto connected. Sometimes you will get a prompt asking you to confirm. In that case you can click on confirm. So now here it is only showing us the one repository which is Terraform hyphen repo. However this repository is not being shown in such case. What you can do. You can directly copy this. For example you can say demo KP labs user hyphen the name of the repository. In this case it is KP labs Terraform learning. I'll press here. Make sure that this name is correct. If it is, you can just press enter in case if you'd like, you can give a description. There are also some advanced options that are available. We'll ignore them as of now and we'll click on create now. At this stage it is also asking us to configure the variable. Now generally when a HCP fetches this specific code from GitHub repository, it needs to deploy to a AWS account. Now in order for it to deploy to an AWS account what it will need. It will need the credentials. So it will need your access key, the secret key. It will also need the region where the resource needs to be deployed. So all of this you need to supply as part of the variable. So again as we were discussing it can happen that the UI might not be the same. So in case if you do not really see this that is fine. You can go to workspace. You can open the workspace here. There is a dedicated tab for variables. You can open this and from here you can go ahead and add the variable. The variable that we are interested in are the access key, secret key and the region. Now when you discuss about the AWS provider, again we are in the official documentation. There are multiple ways in which you can define the access secret keys. One is you can add it as part of the code, which we know is not a good practice. You also have option for adding it as part of the environment variable, which is a better option here. So let's go ahead and do that. So in the add variable I'll select environment variable. Let's copy this. Let's add it here. Now you also need to provide the value. Now just for simplicity and completeness I'll go ahead and I'll create new set of access secret keys for our AWS account that we will be using in Hcpi. So let's go to users. I'll create a new user. I'll call it as HCP Terraform. Let's do a next. We'll attach policy to this user. Just for simplicity, we'll be using the administrator access policy. Let's do a. Next we'll create the user. So our HCP Terraform user has administrator access permission in the security credentials. I'll go ahead and I'll generate the access secret key quickly. So these are the access and secret keys. Let's copy the access key. And within here I'll add the access key. Here. There is also an option of sensitive will be discussing about this at a later stage. For the time being you can just select it to be sensitive. I'll click on add variable. So we have one environment variable here. Second environment variable is the secret access key. Let's copy this. We'll add environment variable here. We'll copy the secret access key. Let's add it here I'll mark as sensitive I'll click on add variable. And the third one is the AWS region. Let's copy this I'll add it here. Again the environment variable and the value would be us East one. I'll add the variable here. All right. So these are the three very important environment variables that you need to set. Now that our environment variables are configured let's go back. So currently this is not working. In fact let me just refresh the page. All right. Let's go back to the overview. Now our variables have been set. In fact you can go to the workspace I just wanted to show you end to end. So in the workspace you have this workspace I'll open this. At this stage we already have configured the variables. Now you can go ahead and you can start a new plan. Or you can also click on New Run. So let's click on New Run and let's click on start. So now what it should ideally do. It should fetch the code from the repository that you have created. And you see it has successfully fetched because it is able to show that you have a file called as EC2 WTF? Once it has fetched the code, the second step is it is running the plan operation. So let's go ahead and quickly wait for plan operation here. So if you look into the plan, this is how the plan really looks like. Instance type is T2 micro. This is the ami ID and so on. And the next stage here is apply. So it is asking us for confirmation. So if you want to create the resource you can go ahead and click on confirm and Apply. If you think you do not really want to create a resource, you can just click on Discard Run. Let me just click on Discard Run. Let's just say apply not required and I'll just click on Discard Run. So this will not really create a resource for us, primarily because we just wanted to understand on how the overall workflow looked like. Great. So I hope with this now you understood in detail about what workspaces are as part of the HCP, Terraform, how they are connected to the git repository and how they can fetch the code and if required, deploy the infrastructure in your cloud environments. So with this we'll conclude today's video.