Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the basics of the CLI driven run workflow in HP Terraform. Now at this stage, you might have noticed that whenever you create a workspace in HP Terraform, you will see three options related to workflow. One is the version control workflow. This is something that we have already seen where the code is being fetched from git repository, and based on this the operations are performed. Second is the CLI driven workflow. Third is the API driven workflow. So today we are going to discuss about this CLI driven workflow here. Now if you look into the description associated with the CLI driven workflow it states best for those comfortable with Terraform CLI. Now we are already quite comfortable with Terraform CLI. So we are going to look into the differences between both of them. Now again, from what I have seen most of them when it comes to organization, they use the version control workflow. And it is also written here that it is best for those that needs traceability and transparency, which is very important for organization. However, when you discuss about the version control workflow, what happens is you have to commit the files to some form of a git repository. So sometimes the question that comes is what happens if I don't want to commit to git? What happens if I want my file to be stored in my local laptop, and I want the operations to run remotely in the HCP? Terraform? Is that kind of a setup possible? And the answer is yes through CLI driven workflow. So at a high level overview in the CLI driven workflow, the working directory, whatever directory that you have, in our case it is KP labs Terraform this working directory. It will be linked with the HCP workspace. So your code whatever code that you are writing initially, it will be part of your local directory. And along with that whatever commands that you run say Terraform, plan terraform, apply these plans. Also, you will be running as part of your local terminal here. Now when we discuss about the first pointer of linking, it looks something similar to this where your local working directory is linked with the HCP Terraform workspace. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and understand this from a demo perspective. That will give us the better idea about this type of workflow. Now for today's demo, I have already linked our KP Labs Terraform folder to a specific workspace similar to what we were discussing here. So let's also look into it. So within the HCP if you will see, I have a specific remote operation workspace that is available here. Let's quickly open this up. And within here there are some runs that have been completed. So this run that we are seeing over here, this run was initiated from my laptop's CLI which in turn is connected to the workspace. So in fact let's also go ahead and quickly look into it. So currently within the KP labs Terraform folder I have this CLI hyphen workflow.tf. Let me open this up with terminal. Now before that let me also quickly show you the code here that we are going to use for today's demo. So the file name is CLI hyphen workflow dot f. Again we'll be discussing about what this is at a later stage. So basically what we have defined, we have defined a security group resource that creates a security group in AWS. Along with that, as part of this block you see we are using cloud. The organization is my KP labs hyphen org. So basically this is the organization where our workspace is located in. And we are also defining a workspace. What is a workspace. It is a remote operation workspace. So if you see this is the workspace that we have defined. So this is what linking really means. Now when a specific local working directory is linked to the workspace, you can run the remote operation from your local laptop. Or to be more precise, you can initiate remote operation from the local laptop. So let's open up the terminal now within here, whenever you go ahead and you do a Terraform plan, what will happen is the plan will run in the HTP, Terraform and whatever output must be present. That output will be streamed over here. So all of these output that you see that is being streamed is happening from the HCP Terraform. So for example here you see it is stating Terraform version 1.9.7. Let's open up a new tab. If I look into the Terraform version here you see the Terraform version that currently is configured in my local workstation is 1.9.1. So this is the version it is asking us to upgrade to 1.9.7, but the HCP Terraform is using the latest version. So from here we can conclude that this specific plan is running in the HCP Terraform and is being streamed here. In fact, we can also look into this. So if you just go to runs, you see this run has been errored out and we already know why it has been errored out. It is because of the provider credentials. So in fact, if I quickly open this up, the plan has edited out. You will see this is the same error that you will see over here. Why is the error coming? Is it because the AWS secret key and access key are not configured in my local laptop? Answer is no. The access and secret keys are perfectly configured in my local laptop, but they are not configured as part of this workspace. Now, just for simplicity, I'll go ahead and I'll also update the Access and Secret key as part of this workspace. So currently the access and secret keys are there, but it has been removed. So in fact, let me just quickly generate the new pair of access secret key. Again. Note that this is a demo video. We'll have a separate practical video. So I'll edit the access key ID I'll save it. Let's copy the secret access key again. I'll edit and I'll save this. And I'll click on save variable. So now that we have added the new set of access secret key that are not disabled. Now if you do a Terraform plan this time you should not really get an error. As expected, it is showing you that the security group is being planned to create. So one more way in which you can see it gives you the link. You can copy this link and in a newer tab you can just add this link. It will take you directly to the run. So this was the run that had happened as part of our HCP. This is the plan operation with the name of allowed TLS. So now let's also test end to end workflow. So I'll say Terraform apply auto approve. Let's see if the resource gets created or not. So again this time you see you will have a separate run URL. Now you can also check the variables. You will see that the AWS region that is configured is US East one. So you can quickly go to the US East one region, which is North Virginia. You can go to security groups. As of now only default security group is available. So at this stage it is creating the resource you see. It is creating it. Let's quickly wait for a moment here. So the creation has been completed. If we refresh this is the allow underscore TLS security group. And now if you want to destroy you can just do a terraform destroy with auto approve. Now again since the working directory is linked with the HCP workspace, whatever command that you are typing, ultimately it will be executed at the HCP workspace itself. It will not be executed in the local workstation. So let's quickly wait for a moment here so that we understand the end to end workflow and grit. Our security group has been removed. Great. So I hope with this you understood the basics of the CLI driven workflow. Again, one more benefit is that whatever TF file that you have, you don't have to manually upload it to the workspace automatically. The Terraform will fetch the contents associated with the file and based on the content. The plan and apply operation will run at the HP Terraform level here. So that's a very high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.