Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to start with the practical associated with the CLI driven run workflow. So let's get started. Now we have already discussed what the CLI driven workflow is all about. And we also saw some of the benefits where we can run the Terraform CLI command as part of our local workstation. However, behind the scenes the runs will be executed at the HCP level. So let's go ahead and look into the practical steps involved as part of the CLI driven workflow. First post, which will start with our practicals. Now the step number one is you have to set up the cloud integration. Now, as we know as part of the CLI driven workflow, the code can remain as part of your local working directory. So in the local working directory you have to add or you have to set up the cloud integration where you have to specify the organization name. You also have to specify the workspace that you want to link with the local working directory. So these are the two important components we will be discussing about how we can fetch this specific code in just a moment. But first let's go ahead and explore step by step Solution. The step number two. After you have specified the organization and the workspace, you have to do the Terraform login. So when you do a Terraform login, it will go ahead and log in to your HCP. Terraform you will get a token. You have to specify the token as part of the CLI so that the authentication can happen. The step number three is you have to run the Terraform init to initialize. And step number four is you can run the plan and apply operation from the local CLI itself. So overall four steps. The approach is quite simple. So let's go ahead and get started. Now for today's video I have a very simple file in CP Labs Terraform folder which is CLI hyphen workflow. So in fact let's quickly open this file. And within a year the resource is very simple. It is a time slip resource. So when you do a terraform apply it will just wait for 10s and it will be completed. Now before we go ahead and set up the cloud integration, let me in fact show you on how exactly this resource works. So first I'll quickly do a Terraform init and let's quickly do a Terraform apply with auto approve. So now what will happen? As we are discussing it will wait for 10s and then it will complete. All right. So now the apply has been completed. So just for simplicity, now that we have tested this, let's go ahead and remove the earlier files that were created. We'll keep our directory very simple. Now the step number one that we were discussing is we have to set up the cloud integration. And in the cloud integration what we need we need the organization and we need the workspace name. So let's do one thing. First. Let's go ahead and create a workspace that will be used for this specific CLI driven workflow. So I'll go ahead and I'll quickly create a workspace. Let's select the appropriate project I'll create the workspace. This time I'll select the CLI driven workflow. Let's just call it as CLI driven workflow. And I'll quickly create it. Now generally when you create a CLI driven workflow based workspace. It will give you the example code. So this is the exact code. Now again in case if you do not really get it that is fine. You can fetch this from our GitHub repository. I'll add this code. You just have to modify the organization and the workspace. So let's copy this. Let's quickly open this. I'll just add the details here. Now one of the benefit of directly copying is that the organization name and the workspace name are preconfigured here. So it just becomes a little easy. Once you have done that you can also run the Terraform login command. Now what this login command will do. You see it will go ahead and store the token in plain text in this following path. This is the path where the exact token will be stored, which will then be used for authentication. So I'll just accept it. Now what it is doing, it has gone to a specific page and it is asking us to generate the token. Now again, the HP Terraform that is used in this Chrome browser is a different one that is primarily used for demo. So I'll copy this link and I'll open this in a separate browser which is logged into HCP. Terraform that we use for practicals here. So within here let's open this. Similarly you'll get an option to generate a token. You can also select expiration. Let me just do one hour since we are going to quickly complete the demo. I'll generate the token. So this is how the token really looks like. I'll copy this and you have to enter the value. So I'll enter the value. Note that even if you enter the value, you will not be able to see it as part of the CLI. That is completely fine. I'll press enter and we are ready. Now if you see it states retrieve token for Cape labs user. So this means that you have successfully authenticated. So now your local working directory is connected to the workspace here. So once it is connected now you can go ahead and do the terraform init. So this time you see it is stating initializing HCP ATP. Terraform. So now, once it has been initialized, you can do the Terraform plan. So this time it clearly states that it is running the plan in the HCP Terraform. It is also showing you the link of the run. Now you can in fact go back to your workspace, look into the run and you see that there is one run that is triggered via the CLI. If you open this run, this is how it looks like. You see Time.sleep. Wait 10s. And this is the plan here. And the same you will be able to see as part of the CLI. Again, one of the quick ways to really identify if it is really working in Terraform is compare the version. So here you have version of 1.9.7. But in the local laptop, if you look into the version that I have, it is 1.9.1. So since it is 1.9.7, we can quickly say that it is not really running as part of the local laptop here. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the practical aspect related to the CLI driven workflow. And with this we will conclude today's video.