Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the importance of variable sets in HP Terraform. Now before we go ahead and discuss about variable set, first let's look into the challenge that organizations used to face before this feature was introduced. Now it can happen that in a specific project you have multiple workspaces that makes use of the same set of variables. Now, in such cases, what happens is that you have to replicate the same set of variable across multiple sets of workspaces. For example, let's say that you have a specific project, and in this project there are in total of three workspaces associated with three different applications. Now all of these three workspaces require same set of variables associated with them. So these are the workspace variable associated with workspace one workspace variable associated with workspace three. And same with the workspace two. So the key and value associated with these variables are same across all of the workspaces. Now, let's say tomorrow that the password associated with this admin user changes. Now what you need to do for all of the workspace variable, you have to change the password individually. And this is something that you do not really want. In larger projects. You want to keep things simple. So in such cases, variable set proves to be very important where you have a central set of variable that you create. And then you can associate this central set of variable to multiple workspaces. So tomorrow if you have to change the value for a specific variable, you can directly do centrally. No need to manually change it at a workspace level. So this specific feature of reusable variable and centralization is achieved using the feature of variable sets. So that's an overview. Let's go ahead and quickly try this out. Now just for simplicity, I'll quickly go to one of the organization that I have. And again here you have multiple projects. We'll be making use of a project of HCP. Just for today's demo. Now generally what we do is whenever we want to set a variable at the workspace level, you have the workspace variable and within here you specify variable. For example admin user I'll say admin password and I'll add the variable. So this is something that we are discussing which states that if you have same set of variable it can also be accessed and secret key. In fact this is quite common. Generally in organization you see that access key and secret key are common across multiple workspaces. And this is the reason why you do not generally add it as part of variable. You add it in the variable set. Now, instead of adding the same details in multiple workspaces as we know what you can do, you can go ahead and add a variable set. Now whenever you add a variable set here, let's look into it. Let's just call it as admin creds. All right. Now this variable set can be applied globally, it can be applied to specific projects. Let's just keep it global for the time being. And within here you can specify whatever value that you want. Just for example I'll say DB server and I'll say 172310.36. Once then I'll add the variable. I'll create a variable set. Now this variable set is applicable for all of the workspaces. Now if you go back to our HCP workspace here, if you go to variables you will see that in the variable set there is one variable that is made available which is the DB server followed by the appropriate value. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the concept of variable sets. Now a few important pointers that you have to keep. A note first is related to the variable set scope. As we were discussing, when we talk about scope there are two important scopes. One is globally where all current and future workspaces will be applicable to the variable set that you create. And second is you can also apply it to a specific project and workspaces here. In fact, let me also quickly show you. So when you go to the main settings, the variable sets, whenever you create a variable set, you have apply globally, apply to specific project and workspaces. And within here you can add a specific project here and you can add a specific workspace here. So this kind of flexibility is also available. The next important pointer to note is the type of values that you can add in variable set. So in total there are two variable categories here. One is the actual Terraform variable and second one is the environment variable. Again as we are discussing from what I have seen in the organization that makes use of Terraform, one of the common part that you will see as part of the variable set would be the access and secret key, and the region, and it will be associated with the variable category of environment variable. So this will make things easier because you don't have to add the access and secret key for all of the workspaces here. The next important part is related to overwriting a variable in a variable set. This again is very useful, so you have to keep a note that in case if you have a variable set that is applicable and you want to overwrite that variable set. Now it can happen that there are multiple variables that are being propagated to a specific workspace using a variable set, but you only want to overwrite one specific variable. Now in order to do that, what you can do at a workspace variable level, you can go ahead and create a variable with the exact same key as the variable set. And if ACP Terraform sees that a workspace variable has the exact same key as that of the variable set, then the workspace variable will take the higher priority. Now, in fact, in the screenshot also, you can see that you have the DB write capacity that is coming from the variable set. The value is ten. Now there is also a variable with the name of db write capacity with a value of 15 in the workspace variable. Now due to this the variable set part becomes overwritten. So let's in fact try this out. Now at this stage if you look into the variables set here there is one specific variable set. And the variable here is DB server. And this is the IP address. So let's go ahead and try to see if it can be overwritten in case if you would like. So at a workspace level what you can do you can create a workspace variable with the exact name. So let's say DB hyphen server. And I'll say 1070 70. ten. And I'll click on add variable. As soon as ACP Terraform sees that a workspace variable is available, and the variable set is also present. In the default setting, you will see that this variable set will be overwritten over here, and this will take the higher priority. All right. So this is the basic of variable sets along with some of the important pointers. And with this we will conclude today's video.