Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we'll be discussing about Sentinel. So at a high level overview, Sentinel is a policy as code framework which is integrated with the HashiCorp enterprise products. Now what Sentinel does is basically it allows users to add a logic based policy decisions. Now, depending upon the logic that you add at a Sentinel, your Terraform plan can either run or either it will not run. So basically it will be blocked depending upon the policy that you add in the sentinel here. So let's quickly look into the high level overview. First thing you have a policy. So here you can have various type of policies. For example here you have one policy which is block EC2 without tags. So any EC2 instance that gets created which does not have a tag, this kind of EC2 instance will be blocked. So this policy gets attached to policy sets. And this policy sets in turn gets associated with your Terraform Cloud workspace. So this is the high level structure. Let's go ahead and look into it. Now within the Terraform documentation there are multiple sentinel example policies that are available. So these policies are available depending upon the platform that you use. So here you see you have policies related to disallowing 0000 Cidr block in security group a very important one. In case if you are using Sentinel you have the mandatory tags on the Taggable, AWS resource and so on. And within the Terraform cloud. In fact, let's create a new workspace. We'll use the version control workspace. I'll use the GitHub integration. We'll use our Terraform repo that we have created and the workspace name let's just call it as Sentinel. I'll create a new workspace. Great. Now before we use Sentinel in the slide one there is one important note which is sentinel policies are paid feature. So in case if you are using the free plan this is something that you will not be able to use, so you'll have to upgrade to a paid plan now in the settings plan and billing over here. Currently you see the plan is free with one active user. So in this you will not really see Sentinel enabled. In case if you want to use Sentinel, you'll have to change the plan. In fact, let me change it right away. And within here I'll use the trial plan, which is nothing but the team and governance plan that comes with Sentinel. I'll go ahead and start the trial now. Once the trial is started and you see a free trial, let's refresh the page and on a refresh this time, you see you have much more options now, like cost estimation policies, policy sets, etc. so as we are discussing, we are more interested in Sentinel. So we will be going ahead with policy policy sets and workspace based setup. First, let's go ahead and quickly create a policy set. We'll connect this policy set and will use the no VCs connection over here. Let's give it a name as Sentinel Policy set. And here, within the scope of policies, you can either enforce it to all or you can select a specific workspace. I'll use a specific workspace. And the workspace name would be Sentinel. I'll click on Add Workspace and I'll connect the policy set to the workspace. All right so at this stage policy set is connected to the workspace. But there are no policies associated with the policy set. So the next step is to create a new policy. Now within here let's give it a name. Let's call it as check EC2 tags. And here you can add a policy code. So the policy code that we'll be adding I have already added it as part of our GitHub page, which goes ahead and checks for tags as part of the EC2 instance. So this is the basic policy code here. You also have an enforcement mode where there are three options hard mandatory. So this cannot be overridden. So in case if your EC2 instance does not have tags, then it will be blocked. Then you have a soft mandatory which can be overridden and advisory which is logging only. So we'll be using the hard mandatory which cannot be overridden. Let's associate this policy with our policy set. And I'll click on Create policy. Perfect. Now within our Sentinel workspace since we are going ahead and running the EC2, WTF. If you will see in our GitHub, the EC2 instance does not really have any tags. So ideally if things are working then the Sentinel should block this specific code. So now within the Terraform Cloud workspace let's go ahead and open up our Sentinel workspace. Currently there are no variables that are set. So let's go ahead and quickly set the variable here as well. So for this we need to go to the AWS provider configuration. Fetch the name of the environment variable. Let's copy this. Let's quickly set it here. I'll add the access key. I'll add the secret key. I'll set the sensitive to true, and I'll click on save variable. Perfect. So once this is done, you can go ahead and start a new run. So this time since we have a paid plan over here, you see there are two additional features here. First one is the cost estimation. Then is the policy checking. So let's quickly wait and verify. All right so our cost estimation is completed. So for the EC2 instance if you look into the code it was based on T2 micro type. And this will cost you around 8.3 USD per month. Along with that you also have a policy check. And it is stating heart failed. And basically this EC2 instance does not really have any tags and this is the reason why it is failing. So since this is a heart fail, you will see, apply, will not really run, and you will not be able to override this. So in order to verify the success operation as well, let's go ahead and add a tags to our EC2 instance. So associated with the resource of AWS underscore instance, let's look into how tags are added. So you see that adding of tags is very simple. Under the tags you have a key value pair. So this is the only stanza that we have to copy. And within our GitHub. Let's go ahead and paste it here. Let me zoom in and I'll paste the contents. We'll just leave the tag names to be the same. We'll go ahead and commit the change. So once the changes are committed the Terraform cloud will go ahead and run it once again. So you see, it is now again in the planning stage. Let's open this up. Perfect. So now this time you see the policy check has passed and now you have the option of confirm and apply to apply the changes. Now, before we conclude, there is one important thing that I wanted to show you is once you have completed with your practicals, you can go ahead and delete your workspace. So under the workspace, if you go to Settings Destruction and Deletion, you can go ahead and click on delete from Terraform Cloud. And within here you can give the name of the workspace. Let me give Sentinel and delete the workspace. That's great. So I hope with this you understood the basics of Sentinel. Now again, one important thing that you need to note is that although Sentinel seems to be useful for the resources that are created through Terraform, but it is not a one solution product. For example, let's say we have a sentinel policy that verifies all the EC2 instances must have tags. In case if it does not have tags, it will not really run further. Now what happens if someone manually goes ahead and creates a EC2 instance in AWS environment. Sentinel will not really block that. So for a production environment, not only you need a policy check at infrastructure as code level, but at a AWS level as well. So maybe you can use AWS config to verify various rules based on the resources that are currently running in your AWS environments. So ultimately two things will be needed for the production environment. Now one last thing, which is more of a personal note in the organization that I have worked with that extensively makes use of Terraform. I have not really seen Sentinel being used quite extensively or to be more precise, I have not seen Terraform Cloud or Terraform Enterprise to be used quite extensively. Even with the Terraform free version, you have a production grade environment in large scale organizations that are managed in a quite efficient way. Great. So with this we will conclude today's video.