Hi everyone and welcome back. Today we are going to discuss about an interesting feature in ACP Terraform which is the run triggers. Now one important prerequisite as part of this video is that you need to ensure that you understand the Terraform remote state data source, and this specific feature is primarily added in Terraform to address the challenge associated with Terraform remote state data source. And this is the reason why your understanding about the topic is important. Now again, we have already covered Terraform remote state data source practically in great detail in the previous section of the course. So this is one point to note in case if you feel that okay, now I have to go back to the previous sections to understand or revise the concept. Don't worry, we are going to quickly revise about Terraform remote state data source, so hopefully this should cover the revision aspect. So at a high level overview, let's quickly consider a scenario over here where you have a networking team. This networking team is responsible for updating all of the public IP addresses that belongs to the organization. So what they do in the public IP project, They add all of the public IPS and they are storing everything in a remote state over here. So everything is stored as part of the S3 bucket in the output values. Again, we have already discussed about the output values over here. Now you have a security team. Security team's primary responsibility is to whitelist the public IP addresses that the networking team publishes. So what the security team will do, they have a project of firewall rules. Now, since the IP addresses are part of the output values in the Terraform state, which is stored in S3, what the security team will configure in Terraform, they will configure the Terraform to fetch the output values. Whatever output values are present, and perform the whitelisting. So if you remember this is achieved using Terraform remote state data source over here where you have to first define the remote state data source. So here this this is the security team project. In this they have to specify where exactly the remote state is present. In this case it is S3. And then they can specify the bucket name. They can specify the key. Keys. Basically the name of the state file. In case if you do not have the state file with the name of terraform.tf state, you can specify the custom name over here and the region where the S3 bucket is present. This is the first part, and in the second part, whenever you configure the security group rule, instead of whitelisting or hardcoding the IP address over here because it can happen that the networking team tomorrow will publish new set of IP address. So instead of doing that, you can fetch it using the remote state data source and the values over here. You see it is fetched from the outputs over here. And which outputs it is the outputs of the IP tf state. Again, we have already discussed about this practically in the Terraform remote state data source. So this is just going to be the revision slide. Now one of the primary challenge related to the remote state data source is that if you have updated the networking space. So let's say networking team has a new public IP address and they have updated the networking project. Now the other team, let's say application team or security team will have no idea about it unless and until they are sitting right beside each other. So the infrastructure was decoupled, but the process was manual. So let's take an example. So let's say networking team has published a new set of IP address. And it is part of the output values. Now security team if they do not know about it then they will not be able to whitelist that IP address as part of their project. So security team either they need to know from the networking team, maybe through slack or email, that a new IP address is added. So the security team will do a Terraform apply. Terraform will fetch the latest output values and the security team can whitelist. Or if a networking team and security team are not communicating immediately, then for that brief amount of time, the latest IP address will not be whitelisted. That is one of the challenge. So in order to overcome this, what you would like is as soon as the new IP address gets added as part of the output values. Automatically the security teams project should run and it should whitelist the newer values over here. So we require a form of automation so that both the networking team and the security team can have their job in a much more easier way. And communication also is not required because in case of networking, team forgets to inform the security team, the newer IP address will be blocked. So this specific automation that we are discussing it is achieved using the feature of run triggers. So if you need to update your workspace every time when a source workspace changes, you can make use of run triggers over here. Now if you'll see you have a network project and within your below you see runs will automatically be queued in the following workspace which is the security project. So now what will happen is that whenever a network project completes, the security project will automatically start. So the Terraform apply in security project can automatically run. So anytime a network project has new IP addresses, security project will automatically run and that will complete the entire automation for you. So let's do one thing. Let's have a quick demo. This will make things much more clear to us. Now for today's video. Similar to what we were discussing in the initial slide, we have a network project and we have the security project. You see network project. We have a security project. Now if you want to see what exactly is in the network project, let's see. We have a simple a very simple main.tf file over here. And what this main.tf file has, it has a list of IP addresses as you can see. Let me just zoom in. It has a list of IP addresses. And it has the output values which will publish the list of IP addresses that belongs to the organization. All right a very simple code block over here. Now in the security project also we have a very simple main.tf that is available. What it does. First you have Terraform remote state data source. So here the backend is remote. And here we are configuring the organization name and the workspace name. Why. Because this is the HDP Terraform. Now both the network project and the security project, if you see it belongs to the organization of org. So this is the organization name that you are giving over here. And the workspace. The workspace is network project. So and in the output values you have the network public IPS. So the aim here is that whatever public IP addresses that are added as part of the output values over here, what is the name of output value. It is public IPS. Whatever value this specific part provides to the state file it will be reflected over here. So you see data terraform remote state network output public underscore IPS. So this is one part. And this is a workspace name. Because here you have to fetch the state file from the workspace of network project. All right. So this is the basic concept. Let's go ahead and try it out so that we understand the entire workflow. Now at this stage if I'll open up the network project over here in the outputs over here you have two output 88881111. Very similar to what you see as part of this variable. Now, in fact, let's go back. Let's open each project in a different tab. This will make things much more easier. Great. So in the network project at this stage the output is this. And in the security project also you have the same output because ultimately the security project is fetching the public IP data from the network project over here. And in fact if you look into the state file also, you will be able to see. In the public IPS in the outputs over here. This is the most important in the outputs you have these two. All right. Now note that in the outputs you have public underscore IPS. And if you look into the security project code you are specifying the output of public IPS. So whatever value this specific part has these two values these two values will be fetched by the security project. All right. So now let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and update the network project. I'll quickly edit this file. Note that this is a demo video. The aim is to understand the concept, and we are going to add one more set of IP say 2222. All right. Once this is done I'm going to commit the change. So once the change is committed what will happen? The network project will run. So in fact let's go back to the network project here. So in the network project you see you have a new run that is triggered because of the commit. And here you have the planned stage at this stage. Let's go ahead and look into the details. So it is asking us to confirm and apply. Let's go ahead and confirm. Apply let's say added new public IP and I'll click on Confirm plan. All right. So we are waiting for the apply to complete so that the output values gets triggered. Now one of the most important part for today's video is this part runs will automatically be queued in the following workspace which is the security project. Now, at this stage, the apply has finished and you see you have a two, two, two, two that is added as part of the output values. This is one part. Second part as we were discussing is the security project workspace. So in the security project workspace let's try and refresh this. And here you see workspace network project triggered a run a minute ago via run trigger. All right. Now if you click on See details over here you see the plan has completed. The apply has completed. Now if you look into the state file of the security project, you should see the newer value you see in the output of network public IPS. Let me show you the name was Network Public IPS in the security project. Here you also have the 222, two that is available. Great. So I hope with this you understood the feature of run triggers and what are the challenges that it tries to solve and automate. Now before we conclude this video, a few important configurations that you should be aware related to run triggers. So if you want to enable this functionality in Terraform, there are two primary steps. First is the remote state sharing. So in the network project workspace, since the security project is going to fetch the state file and the output values of network project, you have to enable the remote state sharing and designate the workspace with which you want to share the state. Let me also quickly show you. So in the network project over here, if I click on settings, let's go a bit down. You see you have a remote state sharing functionality. What it says choose whether this workspace should share the state with entire organization or only with a specific approved workspace. The Terraform remote state data source relies on state sharing to access the workspace output. This is important. So in here you see I have shared it with the Security Project workspace. In case if you have multiple workspaces that relies on the public IPS, you can also share it with all of the workspaces in the organization. This is the important part. The second important configuration over here is that in the security project workspace, you need to configure the run trigger related settings and designate the appropriate connected namespace. So in the run triggers you can say auto apply triggers. On what condition should it auto apply when the connected workspace is updated in this case network project. So let's also look into it. So in the security project workspace over here, if I go to settings you have a specific settings of run triggers. Now within here you see I have this in auto apply stage. And in the connected workspace I have a network project that is connected. I can also disconnect if I want the security project workspace to not automatically get triggered. So if you click on Connect Workspace, depending upon the workspace that you have, you can select it. At this stage I do not have any additional workspace. This is the reason why it is showing this. Few more important point is that you should be aware of generally from the production perspective. HashiCorp recommends that you use the TF underscore output data source in the Hkp, Terraform or enterprise to access the remote state output in the Terraform or Terraform enterprise. So this is how it looks like. So you have a output data source. Over here. You specify the organization name. You specify the workspace name. This is very similar to the code that we saw for the normal standard Terraform remote state data source. And once you have done that you can use the standard data TF outputs dot dot dot bar. This is something that I hope everyone understands. Now, the main benefit of this is that if you are using this specific data source, it is considered to be more secure because it does not require full access to workspace state to fetch the output over here. So in case if you are using Terraform, then you can consider using this specific part for standard Terraform. Again, you'll have to use the standard ones that we had discussed earlier. Great. So I hope with this you understood the importance of the run trigger feature in Terraform. And with this we'll conclude today's video.