Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss about the teams functionality as part of HCP Terraform. Now, one of the good things about HCP Terraform is that you can invite your entire team, and the entire team can collaborate together on multiple set of projects so that your infrastructure is created and managed successfully through Terraform. So one of the essential aspects in this case is to invite the users that are part of the team. So from HCP Terraform, you can go ahead and invite users so you can provide the email address and the team to which you want to add the user to. You can invite the user, they'll receive the invitation link and they can join your organization accordingly. So this is how the invitation link would really look like, where it says that you have been invited by a specific email to join the KP labs on HCP Terraform, and you can accept the invitation over here. Along with normal users, you can also go ahead and create the team now if you will see as part of the owner's team. Over here you have 32 members and basically teams are groups of HCP Terraform users within the organization. You can have multiple set of teams, and each team will have different set of permissions based on the requirement. So with this said let's go ahead and also look into it Now within my test environment over here we have multiple set of organizations. Now let's explore one of the organizations over here. Now for the organization you can go ahead and go to settings. In the settings you can go to teams. And you see you have a team of owners. Then you also have the users over here. And within here you can go ahead and invite the user. You can specify the email address. And by default you will have one team which is the owner's team. So you can add the user to the owner's team. Maybe if you have a higher plan you can create multiple set of teams and then whatever user you are inviting, you can invite the user to a specific team. Now once you have invited, you will get an email something similar to this where you will get the organization name. In this case it is KB labs and it will also show you who exactly has invited you and you can accept the invitation accordingly. Now, before we conclude this specific video, one point to note is that by default in HCP Terraform, as we saw that there is a owners team. So this is the default team as part of the Terraform organization. So this is one point to note. And as the name suggests the owner's team has the highest access. So that's the overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.