Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss about how we can manage the permissions as part of the HCP Terraform. This video is going to be slightly theoretical. Generally, I don't like theoretical videos. I like to have and show a lot of practical demos, and I like all of our students to be able to practice as well. However, for some products like HCP, Terraform, this is more of a paid product. So some functionality of this product. You will not be able to test it unless and until you pay. So for those we keep it a little theoretical and we try and show as many screenshots as possible so that the concept is understood because generally for Terraform certifications, they'll have some questions related to the Terraform. And some of the features are on the paid variant. So it is important for us to understand it at an overview. Maybe when you start working in enterprises which are paying for Terraform that time, you can go ahead and test it more thoroughly. So let's go ahead and discuss about it. Now. The first important area is related to creating a new team. Now note that in HCP Terraform by default you have the owner's team that is available, and this owner's team will have all the available permissions as part of the organization. So generally, whenever you are inviting a new user, you should make sure that this new user is not part of the owner's team if he does not require that level of access. So you can create a new set of teams, for example developer team, security team, and so on, and you can invite the users as part of those teams. Now when you go ahead and create a new team, you can provide the team name. As you can see, you can give the permission. You can give project level permission. You can give workspace specific permission. You can set the appropriate policies over here. And also you can set the permission related to the private registry. So this is one point that is available. Along with that you can also provide the workspace level permission. So generally for a specific workspace you can add team and the appropriate permissions. So here you'll be able to fine tune what exact team will have what permissions on your workspace. For example here you see when you go ahead and add the team access, you can provide the team which team you want the workspace to be accessible. Now, since here you see the workspace is Dev Hyphen web app. So it looks like more of a developer team workspace. So the developer team over here you can provide the access over here. Again here you have read plan write admin and custom so you can provide the right permission based on the requirement. And also here you can provide custom set of permissions, for example read plan and apply variables. Also, you can set whether the team will have access to variable, whether team will have read and write access or no access, and so on. Along with that, even the state level access you can control like no access read outputs, only read, read and write. And also there are other controls like Sentinel mocks, the run task and so on. So lot of granularity is available at a workspace level for a specific team. And as we know, each team will have multiple set of users that you can configure. Along with that, whenever you invite a new user. And if you have the higher tier plan, you can add the user to the appropriate team. For example, in case if you have created the dev team, you can directly invite the user to that team so that when user accepts the invitation, he will by default be added to the dev team. So as we are discussing as much as possible, avoid adding users to the owner's team because they generally have the highest level of permission, so you can granularly add them to the appropriate teams. Great. So that's the overview on what are the possibilities that we can have in terms of permission management for users and teams in the HCP, Terraform. And with this we'll conclude today's video.