Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the basics of the static analysis tools. And we are also going to look into the options that we have for Terraform. Now at a very high level overview, the static code analysis is a verification activity in which your source code is verified against various parameters. It can be quality, reliability, security, and based on that you will get an output recommendation accordingly. For example, let's say that you have a source code. Now this source code can be C, C plus plus, Python, Java, Terraform, etc. and then you have an appropriate compatible static analysis tool here. Now this static analysis tool can go through your source code. And based on that it can give you an appropriate recommendation based on which you can decide whether the code is approved or rejected to be deployed to development or production environments. So the role of static analysis tool is very important, not only from having a good quality perspective, but also from security perspective. Many a times it has been observed that static analysis tools can detect the security issues early on if used at the initial development life cycle. So with this base set, let's go ahead and explore various static analysis tools that are available post which will be discussing about the Terraform compatible tool. Now, if you'll explore some of the important analysis tools that are available, you will see that Sonar Cube is one of the popular one. Again, this is very popular. I've seen a lot of organizations using Sonar Cube for a lot of use cases. Now again you see Sonar Cube can go ahead and analyze your code. It can check for bugs, vulnerabilities, security issues and so on. And based on that, you can get approved or rejected message that can allow you to finalize whether the code can go to production environment or not. Similarly, there are wide variety of other tools that are available. For example, if you see the Resharper here, this is the code block and you see it is giving you quite good amount of suggestions, warning and so on. Now if we discuss about Wikipedia again, you have a great information about various tools and the supported language. For example, some tools only support C, C plus, plus some tools work with Python and so on. So depending upon the static analysis tools that you use, the supported language will also change accordingly. Now generally in production environment, it is very important for us to have the static analysis tool available. Now static analysis tool will serve two teams. One is the application team that is actually writing the application code, maybe in Python, Java and so on. So that is where one static analysis tool will be used. Second static analysis tool will be used specifically for Terraform. So whatever code that you are writing in Terraform does that code has quality issues or does the code have security issues. So those things also needs to be analyzed. So as part of today's video, we are going to explore the static analysis tool that works with Terraform. And it is good as well. And the tool that we are going to discuss as part of today's video is called as Checkov. now at a very high level overview. Check off is a static code analysis tool for scanning the infrastructure as code files. Now there are multiple solutions that are supported. Not only Terraform you have CloudFormation and others that are also supported here. So what the checkoff can do, it can go ahead and scan your TF files, and it can give you great set of recommendations related to what are the issues associated with the code, whether there are any best practices that are not being followed, and so on. So you'll get a nice clean output. And based on this output, you can finalize whether this code can go ahead in production environment or not. Now, before we go ahead and look into this from demo perspective, let's go ahead and look into what are the other options that Checkov supports apart from Terraform? As we are discussing, Terraform is one of the important IAC file types that are supported. Apart from that, you also have CloudFormation that is extensively used in AWS. You have the Azure Resource Manager. Again many organizations, they use it. You have helm charts that are supported and various others. So overall this tool is quite good. I have seen organizations making use of that. So let's go ahead and have a quick demo to understand on how things work here. Now for today's demo I am connected to a Linux server where I have checkov available. So if you just verify you see we are not getting error. Basically this tool is installed and configured. Now as part of today's demo we have a file called test.tf. So if I quickly open this file let's look into what the contents are. In fact, instead of Nano we'll just do a cat. So basically this file has a provider configuration and it has some resource configuration like IP resource security group resource instance and so on. So a very simple configuration here we are going to make use of Checkov to go ahead and analyze this code and see what are the type of recommendation that it provides. Now again we are going to have a separate practical video associated with this. But I just wanted to give you an overview about how the output really looks like. So at this stage the tool is analyzing our TTF file. And based on this it has provided us with some of the important recommendations. So here you see the path check is zero. So this is related to the secret scan. Failed check is to why there is a fail check. Because you have the access key and the secret key which are hardcoded as part of the code. And this is not at all recommended. So again a great output here which can quickly alert us about the security issues related to the code. Apart from the secret scan, you also have various other checks that are happening here. In fact, let's go a bit up now. If you see the overall Terraform scan path, check is ten. Failed check is ten. Now at this stage, let's explore the failed check, because this is why we actually use the static analysis tool to allow us to improve the code. Now at this stage, we were discussing in the initial slide that the static analysis tool not only checks for security issues, but it will also check for the quality issues. Reliability issues if the best practices are followed as part of the source code, and so on. So based on this here, you see that this specific check which states ensure every security group and a rule has a description. Again, this is a good best practice to follow. Now although this is not related to security but the best practice has not been followed. Similarly, if you look into other checks over here, for example, detailed monitoring is not enabled. You have to ensure that the instance metadata of version one is not enabled, and so on. So many of them are related to best practices, many of them are related to security issues and so on, but at a high level. Overview. Based on the recommendation that the static analysis tool provides as an admin, you can decide whether the code is good to be deployed in production environment or not. Now, before we conclude, let's revise some of the benefits of the static analysis tool. First one is that it allows us to quickly identify issues with the code in the early stages of development. This is very important if a code is tested in development environment. If a code is tested in the staging environment and it has been thoroughly tested as part of QA. Now this code has not been validated with a static analysis tool. Now, before the code goes to production, you decide to go ahead and get it verified from static analysis tool, and you find that there are multiple security related issues that have been found. Now, will you deploy that code in production environment? Answer is no. So again you have to rewrite the code from the development environment, get it tested there and then progress to other environments. So it takes a lot of time and efforts. And this is the reason why if you have the static analysis tool that is included and the code is tested in the development environment itself, things will become much more easier for you and the code quality will be much more mature. Now, the static analysis tool can also enforce good coding standards, since it also explores the coding and the best practices that needs to be followed. And as we have seen, it provides instant feedback for your code. So even if you are writing your code in your laptop, you can go ahead and use the static analysis tool to get instant feedback before the code can go to the development environment. Now, generally when we discuss about Terraform, Checkov is one of the common tool that many of the organizations are making use of. One of the good things about the Checkov is that there are multiple ready made policies that are available for you, so you don't really have to start and write the policies from scratch. There are over 750 policies that are available, and you can go ahead and easily get your code tested. And as we were discussing earlier, by catching the code in the earlier part of the development process, Checkov or any other static analysis tool can prevent the security vulnerabilities from being deployed to the production environments. So that's a very high level overview about the static analysis tool. And what are the tools that you can use as part of Terraform. Again, note that this is not an advertisement video related to Checkov. Checkov is being used in many of the organizations, and this is the reason why it was recommended as part of this course. So with this, we'll conclude today's video.