Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss about the health assessments as part of HCP Terraform. I would say that this is a pretty useful feature. However, the disadvantage is that it is not part of the base tier, so you will have to pay for it if you want to be able to use it. So generally for enterprises this is useful, but for personal testing and verification you will have to still understand it from the theoretical point of view. So that's about it. Let's get started. Now at a high level overview, we should know that HCP Terraform can perform the automatic health assessments in a workspace. Now when we discuss about the health assessments there are two important areas that we have to understand. So there are two types of evaluation. First is the drift detection. Second is the continuous validation. So here we have to understand what each one of these functionality is all about. However, the main aim here is to assess whether the real infrastructure matches the requirement that is defined as part of your Terraform configuration. Now the first part here is the drift detection. At an overview. It can determine whether your real world infrastructure matches your Terraform configuration. And this is generally one of the most common challenges that a lot of organization faces. So configuration drift can occur due to multiple set of reasons. One of the primary reasons is when someone is manually changing the infrastructure. This is so common in larger enterprises. So for example, in the screenshot you see there is a drift. So it can happen that for example, you might have added a security group or a firewall rule, maybe with five inbound rules, but later someone added one more inbound rule manually because maybe some functionality related to connectivity was not working. So that manual change is something that is not part of your Terraform configuration. So in drift detection it will be able to detect that drift. And it is much more useful in larger perspective. The second important type of evaluation is the continuous validation at an overview. This specific feature it determines whether custom conditions in the workspace configuration continues to pass after Terraform provisions the resource. This is very important after Terraform provisions the resource. For example, in the screenshot you see in the continuous validation it is checking the certificate. It is checking the response. Maybe it is checking the Https certificate, it is checking whether the website is running or not, and so on. Now this part of continuous validation I would say this is more of a GUI perspective. The core logic behind this. It is also available in the Terraform free version using the appropriate check block over here. So if you will see in the check block over here what you are doing, you are using the data of HTTP and you are checking the website for example. So in condition you either have one condition where you are getting the response code of 200. That means everything is good, website is working. Or in case if you are not getting the response code of 200, it can say return an unhealthy status code. So this is the primary check block. This you can also use in the core CLI terraform version. And maybe you can also create a script using cron where every two minutes every three minutes it can go ahead and perform the health check. And it can alert you if everything fails. So similar to that, even in Terraform, the same functionality is achieved using the continuous validation. The good thing is that you have the nice little UI where you can go ahead and create the appropriate set of assessments. This is very useful. Now, before we conclude, one point that you have to keep a note is that the health assessments are available in Terraform standard and Premium editions. So as a free user you will not be able to test it. Now let me also quickly show you so in the HCP Terraform pricing page. If we go a bit down, these are the features and it shows you for which tier a specific feature is available. So let's say visibility and optimization. And within here you see there are certain important features like audit logging. You have drift detection. You have continuous validation. These are not available as part of essentials. So then you'll have to pay. And then you'll have to upgrade to either standard, premium or enterprise if you want to work with these features. Alright, so that's the overview about health assessments. Now again, although these features are quite useful, but I have seen organizations that are not using Terraform, but they still have their internal way to achieve the drift detection where Terraform runs and checks whether there are any planned changes in case if there are any manual changes that had happened at AWS console or even the check blocks, you can go ahead and create a script at a cron level where it can run every 2 or 3 minutes, and then you can also integrate it with slack and so on. So a lot of customization can happen even if you're not using Terraform. The aim here is to understand what drift detection is all about, what continuous validation is all about. And that's what exam will test you against. So that's an overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.