Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to learn on how we can migrate the state file to HP Terraform. Now one point that we have to keep a note is that HP Terraform product. It offers secure remote state storage and because it is a remote state storage, it also makes it easier to collaborate between team members. Now again, the collaboration part between team members can also work. If you have a remote state storage of different backend, it can be S3 console, etc. however, along with the secure remote state storage, the secure part is important. There are various features that HP Terraform offers at a state level, which makes it very useful. For example, the Terraform. It retains the historical state version and because of this specific feature, it can be used to analyze the infrastructure changes over time so you can look into the historical state versions from the past one year, and it will give you understanding on what has changed over time. This again proves to be very useful. Before we proceed further, let's quickly look into this specific aspect. Now currently in ACP Terraform, I have a network project over here, and if you look into the runs associated with the network project, you will realize that there are multiple set of runs that have been triggered as part of this. This is very similar to production environment where the infrastructure gets updated on a regular basis. Now there is also an option for states over here. And you see for multiple set of runs there are different set of states that are available. So let's look into one of them. Let's look into this specific one. Now over here it will give you the state information in the state. You see in the output values of public IP, you have three IP 888811112222. Now let's go back to the States. Let's look into what had happened in the initial runs. So when I open this if you look into the outputs over here you have 88881111. So there is one entry that was missing in the initial run. So from here we can identify that at a later stage something was updated and the new IP was added as part of the infrastructure. All right. So this is one part. Along with that you can also roll back to the state version if you require. So there are a lot of advanced configurations that are available. And again the state file is secured when it gets stored as part of HDP Terraform. So this is very useful. And this is one of the reasons why it is very important. Specifically if you're using HDP Terraform, it is very important that you store the state file as part of HDP, terraform itself. And again, if you're running it through the CLI, also you can decide to store the state file in Terraform if you don't want to use the GUI. All of those features now migrating the state file from local to HDP Terraform is very simple. Let's look into the process over here. Now the step number one is you have to add the appropriate cloud block. So within here you specify the organization name that you have created in an HCP, Terraform and also the workspace because the state file is workspace specific. So in which workspace you want to migrate the state file you have to specify this. The step number two is you have to run the Terraform login command primarily because once you want to migrate the state file you will have to authenticate to the HCP Terraform with your credentials. So your credentials must be present. And that is achieved using Terraform login. And the step number three is you can run the Terraform init when you run the terraform init, after you specified the appropriate cloud provider block, it will ask you if you want to migrate the state file. So if you see as part of migrating to H.c.p Terraform. Terraform can optionally copy your current workspace state to the Terraform workspace. And it is asking if you want to do that. And if you do that, it will perform the migration. Now along with that, sometimes it can happen that Terraform version that you are using in your laptop. It might be different from the actual version that is running in ACP Terraform. So in such case when the version differs, but you are sure that it is not going to impact in terms of code, then you can also add the appropriate flag of ignore remote version and things will work perfectly well. So let's do one thing. Let's try it out. Practically. This will give us better clarity. Now, for today's practical, we have a very simple resource block of random string, and the length of the string is going to be 16. So very simple one. Let's go ahead and quickly run the Terraform init and apply. Then we'll look into the migration aspects. Now from the Terraform folder let's go ahead and quickly open this up in terminal. Let's run the terraform init command first. And once this is done let's go ahead and run the terraform. Apply with auto approve. All right. Great. So once this is completed you will see that you have terraform dot. TXT file that is generated. And within here you have the result. This is the result over here for this specific resource block. Now at this stage, as we know the Terraform state file is stored locally. But now let's assume that you have understood the benefit that Terraform provides. And you want to store your state file in the HDP Terraform workspace itself. So how will you be able to do that? Let's quickly explore. Now the first thing that you will require is the workspace itself. So you can go ahead and quickly create any workspace. Let's quickly create a workspace for a specific default project here. Now within here, since the code we want to keep it as part of the local laptop, you can select the CLI driven workflow. The workspace name let's say test workspace. Let's quickly create it. Now, since you have decided the CLI driven workflow, you have the example code that is provided over here. Let's copy this from here and let's add it over here. All right. So here you have the organization name where the workspace belongs, and you have the workspace name itself. This is the first part. Second part. In case if you are not configured, you can run the Terraform login command because the state file needs to be stored in Terraform. So the authentication should be successful. So in here let me just type. Yes. So it will generate the necessary token. Let's click on generate token. This is the token I'll copy this. Let's add it over here and I'll press enter. All right. So this is how the output really looks like. It says Welcome to Terraform. Great. Now there are a few aspects that I wanted to show you. Now when you run the terraform init command let's quickly do that. At this stage you might see an error. So what is the error? The local Terraform version 1.1.1 does not meet the version requirement for the remote workspace, which is 1.41.0. Now going back to our workspace, you see for the test workspace, the Terraform version is 1.41.2. Now in case if you would like you can also change it. For example, here you have multiple set of Terraform versions that are available. You can also set the appropriate version in the workspace, but in case if you do not want to downgrade this version at a workspace level, then you can also use an additional flag of ignore remote version. You have to be careful if you are 100% sure that things are not going to break between the two versions based on the resource that you are creating, you can use that. Otherwise, make sure that the versions are same. So let's go ahead and explore how we can fix this error. So I'll run the terraform init command with the ignore remote version flag. And now it is asking that as part of migrating to Terraform it can optionally copy your current workspace state. And we want that it is saying should terraform migrate your existing state? I will say yes. And grid it has successfully initialized. So this means that the state has been migrated successfully. Now if you would like to see for the test workspace over here. In fact, let's go back for the test workspace. If we look into the state file, you see you have a new state that is available. And within here if we go a bit down this is the result. So again the state migration is very simple process. Now before we conclude this video a few important pointers that we have to keep a note of. First one is that always take backup of your existing Terraform state file before you do the migration. As we know TF state file is the most important component. Always take a backup of it. Now one more thing that I would like to show is that the Terraform state file, after you have migrated, the contents of this file is now completely empty. So no, Jason, details are present over here. There is also Terraform dot state dot backup that is available, but the recommendation is take one more backup in case. If this does not work due to any reason, you still have your main TF state backup that is available. This is one important point. The second important point here is that for the automated environments, for example, for the CI CD like environments where the manual intervention is not required. In such case you can use the Terraform init with hyphen migrate hyphen state flag. For example, when we ran the terraform init command in this practical, it was asking us if we want to proceed, so we had to type. Yes, but if you're automating it, you do not really want that manual intervention. So in such case the better way can be terraform init with migrate hyphen state flag. This is also important from the exam perspective. So make sure that you know about this aspect. Great. So that's a high level overview on how you can migrate the state file to Terraform. And with this we'll conclude today's video.