Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we will quickly go ahead and discuss about the data source of AWS Color Identity. Now, at a very high level overview, whenever you are making use of this data source, it will show you the information about the AWS account as well as the IAM principle that is being used to make the AWS API calls. For example, here you have a data source and here you have the output. What does the output show? It basically shows all the attributes that this data source retrieves. So when you look into the actual output it will look something similar to this. So it will show you the account ID. So this is the actual AWS account where the AWS API calls are being made to create or manage the infrastructure. It also shows you the Arn. So this is the Arn of the user that is being used to make this AWS API calls. In this case we have a user of Terraform. So let's go ahead and quickly look into this post, which will also be discussing about the use cases where this will be useful. So when you look into the AWS Color Identity data source, again it is very simple. You specify the data source over here, and then if you want to see the output, you can add the output associated with the data source and the appropriate attribute. Now when you look into the attribute There are four primary attributes. The major one that are being used quite extensively are the account ID as well as the Arn. So with this base set let's go ahead and try it out. So within our KP labs Terraform folder I'll go ahead and quickly open this up with Visual Studio Code. And within here I'll just call it as data source color identity.tf. And within here we'll just add a data source of AWS color identity. And you can just give a name and that's about it. And then in case if you would like to see what are the attributes associated with this data source, you can just also add an output value. And within here you can just say data dot AWS scholar identity dot this dot. You can add a star so that all the attributes are being shown to you. Once this is done, I'll save this from the CLI. You can just do a terraform apply with auto approve. And this is the output. This is the AWS account where the API calls are being made. This is the exact user whose credentials are configured and the credentials that Terraform is using to make the API calls. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood what this data source allows us to do. Now discussing about the use cases in many of the scenarios. Specifically, whenever you are writing the IAM policies, it can be the resource based policy as well as the identity based policy. Many a times in policies you will have to add various important information. For example, if you look here in the principle, you have to define the Arn. So within the Arn one of the important part here is the account ID. So whenever you are writing the policies where account number is required, then instead of hard coding this account number as part of the policies in Terraform, you can go ahead and fetch this account number from the data source of color identity and it can make your life simple. Similarly, even when we discuss about the KMS policies, again, KMS is not part of the exam. But just for an example you will have to specify the Arn. So sometimes you might have to add this specific Arn. Sometimes you have a very generic Arn, but the account ID will change depending upon the scenarios. So that is a very high level overview. And with this we will conclude today's video.