Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the data source of AWS underscore subnet and AWS underscore subnets. Now at a very high level overview, whenever you define this specific data source of AWS underscore subnets, it allows you to fetch information about the existing subnets in the specific VPC. For example, you have specified the data source of AWS subnets, and in the output, you're outputting all of the values or all of the attributes that this data source will provide. Now when you look into the output you see, it gives you details of all of the subnets that are part of the specific VPC. Now, since you have not really defined any VPC, it will look into the default VPC and whatever subnets are present, it will give you the subnet ID. Subnet ID is useful in a wide variety of use cases, which we'll be discussing in just a moment. So let's do one thing before we proceed further. Let's go ahead and try it out. post which will be discussing things in more detail. So within our KP Labs Terraform folder, we'll quickly open up the Visual Studio Code. Within here, I'll just quickly create a file of data source hyphen subnet.tf. And here we'll define a very simple data source of AWS underscore subnets. And that's about it. And you can just also add the output. And in the output what is the value that you want to specify. Data dot AWS underscore subnets dot this dot. You can just add a star. So all the attributes associated with this data source will be presented. I'll save this. Now within the terminal I'll just do a Terraform apply with auto approve. And within here you see all of the subnets associated with the VPC are been presented to us. Now let's also quickly verify if this is accurate information. Now from the AWS console let's quickly go to the VPC service. Within here I only have one VPC, which is the default VPC that comes by default in all of the regions. Now if you look into the subnets in total I have six subnets here one, two, three, four, five and six. And you have one, two, three, four, five and six. Let's compare one of them. I'll just copy one I'll add it over here. You see this subnet is appearing. One more random I'll just copy I'll add it over here. And now you see both of the subnets are appearing great. So from here we can conclude that the right subnets are being presented to us as part of the outputs. The second important area that you need to remember is associated with the support of filter for this data source. Now many times what happens is since there are multiple set of subnets. You do not really want all of the subnets. You might want only a specific subnet ID as part of the output. In such case you can make use of filters. So if you see you have added a filter and within the filter you have the name and value. So in name you are specifying tag of name and in the value. Whatever the tag value is present, you are adding it as part of the filter. So let's also try this out. So at this stage none of the subnets have any associated name. So we'll just give a name here I'll say private zero one. And we'll just take any random subnets and I'll say private zero two. All right. Now as part of our data source we'll go ahead and will add a filter. I'll say name is equal to tag of name value Equals to. We'll add private underscore zero one. All right. So we are still getting a warning over here. What it says require attribute values not specified. All right. So we just have to add a values here. I'll save this. Now let's go ahead and do a terraform apply. And ideally we should only see one subnet as part of the output. And this is the subnet ID. It ends with 1848. You can always verify you have 1848. Now currently you see there are other information that is also being presented in the output which we do not really want. What we want is this part IDs. So what you can say instead of star you can just specify IDs. I'll save this. We'll clear. We'll do a terraform apply again. And this time this is the output which is much more clear. Now within here you can also try to add a star. We'll save this. We'll do a terraform. Apply. And this time, you see, we got two subnet IDs. One eight, four eight. This is the private subnet one and F96 which should be this one as expected F96 is there. Great. So I hope with this you understood the importance of filter. Now as we are discussing in the first slide which states that in today's video we are going to discuss about data source of AWS underscore subnet and AWS underscore subnets. Now the practicals that we have been doing is the AWS underscore subnets. However there is also a subnet data source available. So let me also quickly show you. So this is the data source of AWS underscore subnets this one. And you also have one more of AWS underscore subnets. So let's understand the difference between both of them. Now when it comes to the similarity again both of them perform a similar operation when it comes to the resource that they are targeting. However, when you discuss about AWS underscore subnets, it is generally used to get back a set of subnet IDs. So as we saw that, it allows us to fetch multiple set of subnet IDs as part of this data source. However, when we discuss about AWS subnet data source, it is used to retrieve information about a single subnet. Now when we discuss about retrieve information about a single subnet, it means a lot of information that AWS underscore subnets data source cannot output. Now initially we had used a wildcard of star. When it comes to the output attributes. The only major thing that we got was the subnet IDs. It did not really show any other information. Now when you discuss about subnet it has lot of information like subnet ID is one of them. So this is something that the AWS underscore subnets data source was easily able to find. Then it also contains important information like the IPv4 Cidr block associated with a subnet. Then you have availability zone associated with the subnet and so on. So AWS underscore subnets can only give you this information which is the subnet ID. In fact you can also verify for example instead of IDs I'll just use a star again. Let's do a Terraform apply with auto approve. And here you see you do not really get any other information apart from IDs. So the only thing is it shows you the region. Again this is not quite useful here. The main thing that it is showing you is the IDs. And when it comes to here it can show you multiple set of IDs. So if there are say seven subnets it will show you IDs of all of the seven subnets here. Now before we look into the AWS subnet let's also look into the AWS underscore subnets attribute. Now there is one important attribute here which is the IDs. This is something that we already discussed. Now coming back to the AWS subnet data source, as we were already discussing that it is allowing us to retrieve information about a single subnet. However, the information that it retrieves about a single subnet is much more detailed than the AWS underscore subnets data source. So if you look into the attribute here, you see there are so many attributes that this specific data source has Arn, DNS related attribute, IPv6 attribute owner ID, and various others. So what we are going to do, let's try it out. This time I'll say AWS underscore subnet. Let's say I want attribute of this subnet private underscore zero one. So I'll say private underscore zero one. Let's also change it to subnet. And I'll save this. We'll clear the screen this time when we do a terraform apply. You see, the number of attributes that it is giving you is much more detailed. So it is showing you the Cidr IPv4 block. This again is very important in many use cases. Ends with 60 4.0 slash 20. So if you will notice 60 4.0 slash 20. Apart from that a subnet can have so many other important attributes that you see over here. So all of the attributes are being shown over here. So it's that AWS underscore subnet is used for a single subnet. But it gives you a wide variety of information that you can make use of as part of other resources. Now one important point that you have to keep a note of is that whenever you make use of AWS underscore subnet data source and whatever filter that you add, if that filter leads to a match of multiple subnets, then you will get an error something similar to this. So this data source can only be used for a single subnet at a time, and multiple subnets are not supported. Let's also try this out. For example, here we had specified private underscore zero one. However, what happens if you say private underscore star. Now we know that this will match a total of two subnets. So let's see if this works. So I'll clear the screen. We'll go ahead and do a terraform apply. And immediately we got an error. And what it is stating multiple EC2 subnets matched. We already know this. And it is also giving you a suggestion. Use additional constraint to reduce matches to a single EC2 subnet because it only supports single EC2 subnet at a time. So now that we understand the basics of both of these data source, let's look into some of the real world use cases where these will prove to be useful. Now, one of the important use cases where it is being used is to launch a EC2 instance in a specific subnet. Now, whenever you launch a EC2 instance, you have an option to launch it in a specific subnet inside the VPC. In such case, you can add the subnet underscore ID. Here you see it is referencing to this specific data source of AWS underscore subnet and whatever subnet it gets. The attribute is ID whatever subnet ID it fetches. This EC2 instance will be launched here. In fact, let me also quickly show you. Now whenever you launch a EC2 instance. Let's go a bit down in the network settings. If I click on edit, this is the default VPC, but it will also ask you which subnet you want to launch your EC2 instance in. So by default it has no preference. But in case if you would like, you can specify that I want to launch it in this specific subnet only. All right. So instead of hard coding that subnet as part of the subnet underscore ID argument You can use the data source to fetch the subnet ID automatically and compute it as part of your resource. The second use case is related to the security group. Now generally in security group, let's say you want to whitelist the Cidr block associated with a specific subnet. So again instead of hard coding the Cidr block like 172 31, you can fetch the attribute of Cidr underscore block associated with a subnet. And this will be populated automatically. So for example if you see this specific subnet has a Cidr of 172 3160 4.0 slash 20. So similarly it can happen that multiple subnets have different set of Cidr block. And if you want to whitelist it in security group and even in other resources, the AWS underscore subnet data source proves to be useful here. So that's a very high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.