Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to explore about the basics of creation and management related to the IAM user with Terraform. So in total, there are three pointers that we wanted to cover as part of today's video. First one is related to how we can create a IAM user with Terraform. Second is how we can create the IAM user password with Terraform. And third one is to create the access and secret key related to the IAM user. And we are also going to discuss about some of the important areas that you have to keep a note of specifically related to these three pointers. Now whenever you explore the official AWS provider documentation, in fact, let's go to the documentation page. I will also be adding the link to this page in our GitHub page. Now, since we are dealing with the identity and access management, you see on the left hand side, there are multiple services you can go to the appropriate service of identity and access management which starts with an I. So this is the identity and access management if I I'll open this up under this again, you have the resources and then you'll have the data sources. We are more interested in the resources. So in total there are three resources that we will be covering. One is the IAM user, second one is the password. Third one is the secret access key. So for the IAM user you can quickly go down. You have the access key, you have the IAM group and so on. So little bit of searching is required and you have the resource of AWS IAM user. Now again the overall code is very simple. All you do is you have to specify the aws IAM user and the name of the user that you want to create. So let's go ahead and quickly try this out now from our CP Labs Terraform folder I'll quickly open up the Visual Studio Code. And within here I'll just create a new file called as I.a.m.t.f. And we'll just copy this basic snippet and I'll add it over here. We can remove the tags in case if you'd like. You can also remove the path. So for example if you look into the path argument here, you see it is optional. So we'll just remove it and the name of the IAM user, whatever you would like to give, let's just call it as Terraform user. All right I'll save this. Once this is done you can quickly open this up with a terminal in case if you already have the plugins, no need to do a Terraform in it in case if it is a fresh folder, you can just do a terraform in it quickly. Great. Once this is done, you can directly do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve so that the user gets created in AWS. So the user is created. Now from the AWS console, you can quickly go to the IAM service. You can go to users. And within all the users that I have you see we have the Terraform user that is created. So this is the first part. The second part is the IAM user password. Now generally if you try to find something like the IAM password, you will not really see any resource type with the similar name. For example, if you just try to search for password, the only thing that you will get as part of the IAM resource is the password policy. Apart from that, there is nothing that indicates that it is related to password. Now generally in Google when you type something like IAM user password, cloud formation. Cloud formation again is the official IAC service for AWS. You see it takes you to this specific page which is AWS IAM user login profile. Let's quickly open this up. So if you explore this what exactly it says it creates a password for the specified user. So this is how the basic syntax looks like. Now the login profile is something that you can try to search from the documentation here. So let's search for that. You have access key alias password policy. Let's go a bit down and there is one match that you see IAM user login profile, which is very similar to that of cloud formation name. So let's open this up. So when you open this what it states manages an IAM user login profile with limited support for password creation during the Terraform resource creation. So this is something that we can make use of if we look into the example. This is the resource IAM user login profile. You specify the username here and they've also added an output. So whatever password that gets created it will be provided as part of the output. So let's do one thing. Let's just copy this and I'll add it over here. Now once this is done you can just look into the argument what are required and what are optional. So there is only one argument that is required which is the user, which is basically the IAM user for whom you want to set the password for. The other things like PGP key, password length, etc. is optional. So what you can do, the PGP key is optional. I'll just let it be. And in the user you can directly reference to this. Or you can manually specify something like Terraform hyphen user. Let's save this. Once you have done that you can do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Great. So the password is created. Now the password you can get it from the state file. It will be committed to the state file. Let's quickly look into it. So you have the resource with the type of IAM user. This is something that we are not interested. We are interested in this specific resource type. And if you see this is the password associated with the IAM user and it is committed as part of the state file. Now one of the issue with password being committed to the state file, as we already know it is in plain text. However, the second major issue is if a DevOps team is creating a IAM user for a developer user. So the DevOps team member will also have the password associated with that user, which you do not really want. What do you want? Whatever password that gets generated, it must be reset by the developer user whenever he logins. And this is very important. And this is the reason why it is recommended that you set the password underscore reset underscore required argument so that whenever whatever user logs in to AWS, he will be forced to reset the password. This is very important point that you have to keep a note of. And again, there is a benefit that if a developer user is resetting the password when he logs into AWS, it will also ensure that whatever password that has been saved in plaintext as part of the state file, that password is outdated and it will not really work. Now, this is very similar to how you might create a user through GUI. In fact, let me quickly show you. So let's say that you are creating a test user. All right. So you are creating a test IAM user. You can use the auto generated password. So in Terraform the auto generated password is something that is being used. And we have seen. Now there is also one important checkbox which states user must create a new password at next sign in. So whenever a user logs in, he will have to first provide a password that gets generated at this stage, and then he will be asked to provide his own new password. So basically the older password will be reset. So by default if you just use this kind of an approach then this option is deselected. So in case if you want to use this option then you have to make use of password underscore reset underscore required. In fact let's also try this out I'll say password underscore reset underscore required. And you can just set it to true. So this is a much more better approach that you should take. Now the third area that we have to cover is to create the access and secret key associated with the IAM user. Now generally in AWS, in case if you would like the creation of access and secret key is quite simple, all you have to do is you have to create access and secret key. These are just some random use cases. You can just create access. Secret key. You see it shows you the access key and it shows you the secret access key here. Similarly you can go through the documentation. In fact this is the first resource type which is the IAM access key. The overall code is very simple. The resource type IAM access key and you have to provide the user. Again you have the PGP key that is being used here. However, in the argument reference you see the PGP is optional. There is only one required at this stage which is user. So let's copy this. I'll add it over here. We'll remove this PGP underscore key argument. The user again I'll just copy from here and I'll save the change. Now if I'll clear the screen let's do a terraform. Apply again. The IAM access key has been created. So now if you look into the Terraform.tf state file. Let's look into one more resource type. This is the login profile. This is the user and this is the access key. Now you see you have the access key. And you have the secret access key that is made available in the plain text as part of the TF state file. So this is also something that I have included as part of the PPT, which states that the access secrets are available in plain text. Again, this is quite risky. You should avoid that. And in case if you want to have a better security, you can also set the PGP key to ensure that the password remains encrypted in the state file. And this is a much more secure approach. Now, the same PGP key is also available for the login password that gets auto generated. Again, PGP by itself is a big topic. We will not be covering it as part of today's video. However, just for the information perspective, just keep a note of this. So at the overview we were able to create all of these three resource through Terraform. However, before we conclude one important point to remember specifically for the code that we have written. So the important pointer states that if you are creating all the resources together like IAM user, the access key, the login profile and so on, you should avoid explicitly adding the user name for access keys and the password generation. This is something that we have done for the code, but you should not be doing that. Instead, you can make use of dependency to ensure that the API does not fail. Now. In fact, let me quickly show you what is the issue with the code that we have written. So at this stage, the code really looks quite good because we were able to test each and every aspect. However, let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform destroy with auto approve. So the destroy is completed. Now let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve once again. So you see, you got an error. What is the error? It states that for the login profile, Terraform user cannot be found. So what is happening is since it is running all of these requests together, it is making the API call. It can happen sometimes that since dependency is not directly provided, it might try to create things in parallel which will not work because unless and until the user is not created, they should not run or this should not run. So now what has happened? Now the user has created at this stage. So when you try to do terraform apply once again both of these resources will now work perfectly well. You will not really get an error and you see it is working. But first time when you try to do terraform, apply with everything. It will give you an error, something similar to what we have seen. So this is something that we do not really want. So just for simplicity I will just do a terraform destroy. So instead of directly specifying the user here, you can make it as a reference. So you can say AWS underscore IAM underscore user dot ELB. And you'll have to know the exact attribute. In fact let's quickly find it out. So for the IAM user, if you look into the attribute, which attribute provides the name of the user and the attribute name is name. So you can just say name similarly for the access secret key. Also you can just replace with this. So now the dependency gets created. So now Terraform knows that before this can run this resource should be created. So I'll save it. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply auto approve. And this time you see everything is working perfectly well. Great. So I hope with this overview you understood about the basics of the three important pointers related to the IAM user. And with this we'll conclude today's video.