Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about how we can create and manage the IAM policies using Terraform. Now when we discuss about the IAM policies, we are more inclined towards the identity based IAM policies. So just to revise the identity based policies are JSON policy documents that we generally attach to the IAM user, the IAM group and IAM roles. So if you see this is an IAM policy which defines what are the permissions that you want to grant to a specific entity, and you can attach it to the IAM user, the IAM group and the IAM role. Now when we discuss about the categorization of the identity based policies, there are two of them. One are the managed policies and second one are the inline policies. So even in Terraform, depending upon what type of policies you want to create, the appropriate resource type will also differ at an overview. Managed policies are the stand alone policies, so it is not necessary that it is attached to any entity like IAM, user, group or role. Inline policies does not have an independent existence, so you have to create it as part of a specific entity. Maybe IAM role, maybe IAM user and so on. So before we proceed ahead, let me quickly show you both of them so that there is no confusion when we create using Terraform. So within the IAM dashboard whenever you go to policies these are the managed policies. So it can be AWS managed policy or even customer managed policy. So just for an example, when you go ahead and when you create a policy just for simplicity, again you don't really have to do that. I'll just create a sample policy here. Let's do a next I'll just call it as test managed policy. We'll go ahead and create the policy. Let's quickly search for it. Now this specific policy is a managed policy and it is a customer managed. Now this policy at this stage is not really attached. You see it is not really attached to any entity like IAM user or role. This is one part. Second part we were discussing is the inline policy. So let's say you have a specific user, let's say KP labs user within here you can go ahead and create a inline policy. So inline policies are associated with a specific entity. Like at this stage it is associated with the entity of KP labs hyphen user here. And one more small point to remember managed policies. You can attach it to multiple entities together so you can associate it with user. You can associate it with role and so on. You can also associate it with group. So one policy can be associated with multiple set of entities. Inline policies are generally associated with a single entity where it is created. So first let's go ahead and discuss on how we can create a customer managed policy using Terraform. So you have to make use of the AWS underscore IAM underscore policy resource to create a customer managed policy. If you look into the overall code, it is very simple. You are making use of this resource, the name of the policy, the description. And you can also associate what permission. This policy allows something similar to what we just did as part of the guy. The second one is the inline policy. As we were discussing inline policies associated with a specific entity like role, user group, etc. and this is the reason why you specify the user to which the policy is associated with. And again the resource differs. Here you have AWS, IAM user policy, which is a little different than that of the managed policy resource. So that's an overview. Let's go ahead and try both of these practically. So the first that we are going to try it out practically is the AWS IAM policy. Again, the example is quite simple. To understand you have to specify the name. You also have to specify the policy that you want to create as part of this. So this is the policy document here. And you have some optional thing like description. So description is optional. The path is also optional here. So let's go ahead and try it out. This is a very simple policy which allows the EC2 describe action. So it is allow EC2 describe action on all the resources. So let's go ahead and try it out. So within the Cape Labs Terraform folder I'll quickly open this up with Visual Studio Code. Within here I'll create a file called as IAM wtf. And just for simplicity I'll copy the example usage again in case if example changes, I'll add this base example as part of a GitHub repository so that you can try it out and I'll add it over here. So let's just remove the comments. Now, as we are discussing, there are certain things that are optional. So we'll remove this optional part. And within here I'll just call it as Terraform managed policy. Now again this part is something that you can change depending upon the requirement. However we are just keeping it simple. I'll save this. Let's go ahead and open this up with terminal. I'll do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve. All right. So the policy is created. Now just to verify if things are working as we know it is a managed policy. So let's go to the policy I'll just specify Terraform managed. It is not appearing. Let's refresh this. It is now appearing Terraform managed policy. It is a customer managed policy. If I open this up at this stage, if you look into the JSON, this is the exact policy that we have defined. Now note that at this stage we have not really associated this policy with any user. So if you look into the entities attached, it is not showing you any. So in case if you click on attach you can select a wide variety of entities. For example you have IAM users. You can select the entity to which you want to associate this policy with. So this is the first part. The second one is the inline policies. Let's go ahead and also try it out. So within the documentation you can just search for the inline policies. So let's go a bit down. You have the AWS IAM user policy. So this inline policy is used to associate a specific policy to a user. All right. So let's do one thing. Let's just copy the example again. This base example is also in GitHub. So in case if the example in documentation changes you can use the GitHub based example here. So let's go ahead and try it out here. We'll remove the comments. The important part here is the user. So in case if you have any user that is created, any user, you can go ahead and use that. In case if a user is not created, you can just create a new user. Just for simplicity, I'll specify the KP labs hyphen user or you can also specify Terraform. Let's see what are the policies associated with Terraform? Currently there are two policies as part of different videos, so let's just use Terraform only and name I will say Terraform inline policy. All right once then I'll save this. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply again. And this is also created. Now if you just refresh this you see the Terraform inline policy here. If I will just open this up. This is the exact policy. Great. So I hope at a very high level overview, you understood the basics of the customer managed policy creation and the inline policy creation. Now again, there are a few important pointers that you have to keep a note of specifically related to the inline policy. So when we discuss about the AWS IAM user policy, this is the inline policy that you can associate with the specific IAM user. So you have the IAM user here right? This is the user. So you can go ahead and create a inline policy here. However the inline policy can be created directly at a user level, the group level and the role level. For example let's go to a specific role whatever role is available. Just for simplicity. You see at a role level, also you can create an inline policy. And in case if you have some group. So even at a group level, you can go ahead and associate a inline policy here. So depending upon the entity you can associate the inline policy. Now in Terraform when we discuss about AWS IAM user policy, this means that the inline policy will be associated with the IAM user, in case if you want it to be associated with the IAM group or IAM role, then you have a different resource. For example, the aws IAM user policy will be changed to AWS IAM group policy for group. So this is the way in which you can create inline policy at a group level. And you also have the AWS IAM role policy over here. This one. So this is used to create a inline policy at a role level. All right. So again depending upon the user group and role this part the third part here will also change. Now before we proceed ahead there are a few important pointers that you have to keep a note of. First one is that there are multiple ways in which you can define the IAM policies. As part of the Terraform code, one is using the doc string. You can also make use of the Jsonencode function, or you can also source a policy directly from a file. Now, generally, HashiCorp suggests using the Jsonencode function or the AWS IAM policy document whenever assigning a value to the policy. Now, the AWS IAM policy document is something that we will be looking at a later stage. Here in today's video, we are going to explore the Airdock and Jsonencode function before we conclude today's video. Now one thing that you might be wondering is that, for example, the policy looks quite simple. All right. So this is a simple policy. Now in the example that we have seen as part of the documentation, they have used the Jsonencode function. Now why exactly this Jsonencode function is used. And what happens if you do not use that. This is also something that is important for us to remember. So just to try things out I'll copy this and we'll paste it here. And this one will modify it to see what would happen if Jsonencode function is not really used. So let's just rename this policy to test IAM policy. And what we can do this specific policy document. So first we'll remove the JSON encode. From both the places. Let's save this to see what really happens now. So we'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform validate. And within here at this stage we are getting error stating duplicate resource. This is fine I'll just call it as policy custom. Let's save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform validate. At this stage we are getting an error stating inappropriate value for the attribute policy string is required. So within here string is required. As part of this policy attribute is what the error is stating. Now within here what you can do. Just for simplicity, we'll try and use a here doc string docstring here. Let's try it out with the EOT. Let's see if it works. I'll clear the screen and I'll try to do a terraform validate. And we are still getting an error. Now one thing that you will notice as part of documentation is that whatever policy is being defined, you see you have a little different format. So you have an equal two here. However, the policy that are actually created in AWS does not have a equal two. So this is a JSON. In fact, just for simplicity, you can refer to the policy that has been created through Terraform in AWS. If you see the policy is a little different. For example this is a user policy. So within here you had version equal to statement equal to. However here you see equal to is not really used. Second thing that you will notice is that version. You have double quotes here. However within here you do not really have a double quote that is being used as part of this. So this difference is because of the JSON encode function. If this function was not used, then this specific policy would not really work because it is not really aligned with the AWS standard. So what we can do, whatever policy is created as part of AWS, you can copy this and you can replace the policy as part of the year doc string here and we'll save this. This time we'll run the Terraform validate again. And you see the configuration is valid. So one thing that we have noticed that in case if you are using the JSON encode the difference is something that we have observed. So equal to is used here equal to is not really used here. And so on. We'll be discussing in just a moment about this. However let's go ahead and first try to do a Terraform apply I'll clear the screen. We'll quickly do a terraform apply here. And our policies created. In fact, let's also verify. I'll copy this. Let's go to policies. We'll search for the policy. Let's refresh. And this is our managed policy. If you want you can always refer to the JSON. And this is the exact JSON. So this is an example where your doc strings are used. So as we are discussing there are multiple ways in which the IAM policies can be used. Your doc strings are one. You can also make use of the JSON encode function. Now the benefit of Jsonencode function is that it becomes easier to define things here. So for example let's try to make a small mistake. So within here let's say if things are not really aligned let's say I forgot the comma. Will it work. Let's save this. Let's do a Terraform validate immediately here you see we got an error. So let's just revert it back. Now when you discuss about the policy that is defined using JSON encode. All right. Let's go ahead and try to remove a comma. Let's say that by mistake you have removed it because JSON is quite strict. If things are not really aligned you forgot something. You will get an error. So I'll save this. Let's do a Terraform validate. You see, it is still working along with that version statement. Action. All of them. You see, you have a quoted string over here and within here you do not really have it. So using JSON encode things becomes much more simpler. You don't really have to follow the exact strict JSON based standards. The policy will get converted using this specific function. So just to revise, when we discuss about the JSON encode function, it encodes a given value to a string using the JSON syntax. So if you see the example, if you have hello is equal to world, it will convert it to the JSON syntax. So generally it becomes easier to write the policies in case if you are using the JSON encode function. And this is the reason why generally you will see HashiCorp recommending it. However, it is not compulsory to make use of that. You can. If you are very comfortable with JSON, you can go ahead and directly use the policies. Because one advantage of this set of policies, let me quickly show you, is you can quickly test it in AWS. For example, I'll copy this and if you want to test it, if it is actually working or not, what you can do, you can just quickly test it. For example, if you create a inline policy, if you do a JSON, if you copy paste, you see it is not really giving an error. If you remove a comma, you see one error has come. So you can quickly test the policy in AWS, and then you can add it as part of Terraform. And in case if you use this approach like using a equal to and so on. So if you use a string and then you convert it, then it becomes a little difficult to test it. So if I copy this, I add it over here. You see, it is not really working. You are getting so many errors. All right. And one last thing before we conclude this video is this part where you can source a policy directly from a file. And again this is a much more better approach. For example, instead of writing the policy using the here docstrings and so on, you can directly add the policy as part of the file and you can use that. For example, let's just copy it once. I'll just call it as file based policy and policy. I'll just change the name. So what I can do, I can just create a policy called as EC2 describe dot JSON. And this policy that I have added as part of the here doc, I'll just add it over here. I'll save it. Let's remove the here doc. And within here we can make use of the file function. So I'll say this file. EC2 describe dot JSON. And I'll save this. Let's verify if everything is correct. It looks like let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve. Apply is completed. So let's just verify. So I'll go back to IAM I'll go to policies. I'll search for file based policy. We'll refresh it. So the policy is created. And if you look into the permission in JSON these are the permissions. Great. So this is a very high level overview related to the IAM policies and multiple ways to define the IAM policies. Again we have just covered things at an overview. When we were discussing about your dog JSON encode and referencing to a policy directly from a file. So we'll keep it simple at this stage. Otherwise the video will become too long and with this will conclude today's video.