Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the data source of AWS IAM policy document. Now generally, whenever you are working with the IAM policies, there are multiple ways in which you can define the policies. So for example, one of the ways is using the doc strings. You can make use of the Jsonencode function. You can also reference to a policy from a file. And one more better and a recommended way is using this specific data source. So let's go ahead and understand the basics about it. And we'll also try it out practically now at a high level overview this specific data source. It allows us to generate the JSON representation of a IAM policy document. And again it is a good alternative to your doc. So for example, let's say that you are defining the IAM policies using the your doc string. Now again this is a good approach and a lot of organization makes use of that. However, instead of this you can also go ahead and define the policy as part of this data source. And the second one is generally also recommended. Now, if you look into the difference between both of them, one of the difference that you see is that the policy that is used as part of the data source is much more trimmed down. For example, you are not really specifying the version over here. The actions also. So this is not a strict JSON. So your actions is in quoted string. There are alignment indentation and all. So within here you don't have a strict JSON syntax. This is a very simple Terraform based approach that is being used. So there are also some benefits associated with this. Let's go ahead and try both of this post, which will be looking into some of the differences that you have to keep a note of. Now, whenever you look into this specific data source, the first part that you will read is that it generates an IAM policy document in JSON format for use with resources that expects policy documents, such as IAM policy. So it generates the IAM policy document in JSON. What this means strictly, you don't really have to add a JSON based policy whenever you are making use of this data source. Along with that, if you see the overall format is simple here, you're not strictly defining the version and so on. And again, the documentation is quite extensive. So let's do one thing. First. We'll use this specific here doc. And then we'll transform this year doc to the data source based approach. So within our labs Terraform folder let's open the Visual Studio Code. And within here let's just call it as IAM data source.tf. Now for today's video I have a sample policy that is making use of your doc. So I'll just copy this. So this is a sample policy and this is the policy document here. Now good thing is since your doc is used this policy document is a proper JSON and you can always validate it. It will work and it will not really give you an error. So let's copy this. And generally for validation There are again multiple ways. Simple is you can just go ahead and create any type of policy. You can just copy paste your JSON and see if you are getting an error. Currently you see there are no errors. Things are fine if you try to make some typos, for example actions immediately you see you got an error within the policy editor. Great. So this is a proper JSON based policy document. Now let's say that we read that HashiCorp recommends that instead of defining this, you can make use of the data source that we were discussing. So let's also try that out. So if you look into the data source this is the format. Let's just copy this and we'll add it over here. And we'll also close this. Now within the data source you have to specify the statement. You have to also specify the action. You also have to specify the resource. So similar to the example you have a statement you have resource. So let's try it out. So within here you can specify the statement inside the statement. If you see inside the statement, you have action, you have effect, you have resource. So if you look into how actions are defined. So this example suits well. So inside the statement you have actions equal to the same thing that you can add your actions equal to and within. Here you can specify easy to describe. I'll add it over here. This is one part. Then you have the effect and then you have the resource. So effect. Generally by default whenever you are making use of the data the effect by default is allow only. So even if you do not really mention it, it is fine. The next part is the resource. You can always verify on how the resources are defined. So if you see resource is something defined like this. So same you can make use of this. So you can say resource is equal to the exact resource. Let's just specify it as star. And now we'll save this. And this should do. So let's go ahead and try it out. So within our Terraform folder I'll open up the terminal. You can just do a terraform validate. And things seems to be working all right. Now I hope with this you have started to see the benefit that the data source provides. The overall policy is quite trimmed down. And also it is much more easier to read. Now, before we go ahead further, I just wanted to show you the effect of allow. So generally if you look into the documentation, let's go a bit down in the argument reference. Let's search for effect. So you have the effect. You see it is optional whether the statement allows or denies. And if you see the default is allowed. And one more thing, you have not really specify the version, even if you have not specified it in the final JSON that this data source will create, this part will automatically be added. So using here you don't really have to follow the strict JSON syntax, which is much more difficult to write from absolute scratch. However, this thing is much more easier to write here, and this is one of the benefits. The second thing is, once this data source is added, how can you reference this data source policy to be added as part of your IAM policy? So let's also go ahead and try it out. Now I just wanted this policy to be present here because there is one more thing that I wanted to show you. I'll copy this policy. Let's add it here. Now within here, what we can do is let's just remove the year doc string and also the policy document. So the way in which you can associate this policy with the actual managed policy or the appropriate entity is you can directly reference. So data dot AWS IAM policy document dot example followed by the appropriate attribute. So in case if you would like to see the attribute, one of the attribute is JSON. So you can just specify JSON over here and this should do. Now before we do that I wanted to show you one thing. Let's just comment it out. You can just call it as output JSON and value. We can use this. All right let's go ahead and see what exactly the output value shows. I'll clear the screen. We'll quickly do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Now one thing that you see in the output values this is the exact JSON that we are looking for. You see the version is added, the effect of allow is added and everything is formatted according to the JSON format. So if I copy this and if I add it as part of the policy editor to check if everything is working, you see there are no errors over here. All right. So I hope with this you understood what exactly this data source is allowing us to do, which is to generate an IAM policy document in JSON format, which can be used for IAM policies. Great. So now that we understand this let's go ahead and try things out. So I'll uncomment this. So let's just call it as TF Data Policy. Just for an example I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve to verify everything. That's great. So I'll just copy the policy name within AWS. I'll go back to IAM. Let's go to policies. We'll search for the policy. If it is not appearing we'll refresh. So this is the policy that has been created. And if you look into the JSON this is how it really looks like. Great. Now one more thing that I wanted to show you specifically in terms of difference. For example, whenever you are making use of a higher doc policy, let's just call it with a different name. The Yodok policy generally is very strict, and if you have made any errors, the errors will not always be detected as part of Terraform validate, which creates issues. For example, instead of action you have specified actions. So there is a small typo here. I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Now. Whenever you do a terraform validate you see it says the configuration is valid. However, when you try to copy this policy and when you verify it in the policy editor, it will give an error. So for example, just for simplicity. In the policy editor, if I copy paste the policy, you see immediately it is showing an error over here. So whenever you are adding a final policy using your doc, then you have to be 100% sure that it is valid, otherwise the error will not come during the plan stage. Also, it will come during the apply stage that you do not really want. For example, even if you do a Terraform plan, it will show that everything is working here. You see, it shows everything is working. However, when you do a terraform, apply with auto approve. So now you see in the apply stage itself you got an error which you do not really want in production environments. Many times what happens is the entire code is based out of CI CD pipeline. So before apply takes place you have to take approval from your manager. So let's say manager is approved. And at the apply stage you got an error. It does not really look good. And also this is quite a hassle. So you want to avoid it as much as possible. So generally whenever you make some mistake as part of the data source. So let's add an extra s over here I'll save this. Let's clear the screen I'll do a Terraform validate. We got an error. Here it is saying did you mean actions. And the answer is yes I'll remove this. So that's an overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.