Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about how we can create and manage the IAM role using Terraform. Now when we discuss about IAM role, in order to create and manage it, you can make use of the AWS underscore IAM underscore role resource. Now again when we discuss about IAM role there are two important components of this. One is the permission policies. For example, if someone assumes this role, what are the permissions that the entity will get. So in this case you have the EC2 read only access and the S3 full access. So again this is customizable. The second one is the trust relationship. So this trust relationship is very important. This basically defines who can assume this specific role. Now whenever you want to create a IAM role through Terraform, one of the important part that you will have to specify is the trust relationship, which is basically the assume role policy. So again the creation of IAM role is very simple. You have to use the appropriate resource. You specify the name of the IAM role and then you define the assume role policy associated with this role. So let's go ahead and try this out so that the concepts are clear. Now before we create the role through Terraform. Let me also show you the overall steps for creation of role through AWS console. So whenever you create a role for example you have to specify the appropriate service. So let's say that I specify the service of EC2. All right. You can also specify AWS account and so on. We are just keeping it simple. We'll specify the service of EC2. We'll click on. Next you have to specify the permission. So these are the permission policies that we were discussing here. So this is something that you might want to add. You might not want to add. It does not matter. This is optional part. Let's skip this I'll click on. Next you give a role name. Let's just call it as test role for learning. And one thing that you see is that a trust policy has automatically been being generated. So we had specified the EC2 service. So you see the trust policy is automatically generated based on what we had selected and will create a rule. So before we do that one thing here you see step one is the trusted entities. Step two is the permission. This is what we were discussing. First component is the trusted relationship and the next component is the permission policies. Permission policies are something that is optional. However, the trust relationship is something that you will have to specify. I create the role. Once the role is created, you can just search it. This is the role and within this role currently the permission policies are not associated. That is fine. However, the important part is this trust relationship. So this is the policy. So this basically says that the EC2 service is allowed to connect to this role to fetch its credentials and use it for the appropriate access. So similar to that. Whenever you create the IAM role through Terraform, you will also have to specify the assume role policy. So this assume role policy is the policy that you see within here. So this is the assume role policy. And this must be created over here. Even in the example you have the EC2 dot Amazon Aws.com that is used. So EC2 service will be able to assume this role, very similar to the role that we have created where EC2 service is allowed to assume this role. All right. So I hope with this you understood the basics. Let's go ahead and try this out. So I will copy this policy example. Now again sometimes example changes. So this base example that we are using for today's video is also part of our GitHub page for you to directly reference. So within our KP Labs Terraform folder, I'll quickly open up the Visual Studio Code. Within here I will just create a new file called as IAM hyphen role.tf. We'll simply copy paste this policy. We do not really need tags and we'll just trim down this. Let's just call it as Terraform. IAM role. Now again the assume role policy. You can define it in multiple ways like Jsonencode function. You can make use of the year docstrings and so on. I'll just save this. We'll use the default one. We'll just open this up with terminal. Let's just do a Terraform validate. Things look good I'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Once this is done it's time to verify. So within our IAM you can go to roles. Let's refresh this I'll say Terraform IAM role. This is the role that is created at this stage. There are no permission policies that are associated with the role. However, if you look into the trust relationship, this is the policy that we had defined as part of our JSON encode function, and the same has been used here. Now again, note that here you have equal to and so on primarily because the JSON encode is used. Now again before we conclude if we generally look into the example, because at this stage we had kept it very simple, we just created a IAM role with the appropriate trust relationship. However, in case if you would like, there are multiple ways that you can also make use of to customize this. For example, within. Here, instead of specifying the policy document as part of the resource, you are making use of the data source of AWS IAM policy document. You specified it here and then you are making it as a reference within the Assumerole policy. So within the Assumerole policy, instead of defining a JSON or your doc string, or even maybe a file function, you can make use of the data source. And again data source is generally recommended. Great. So that's a very high level overview about how you can create the IAM role using Terraform. And with this we'll conclude today's video.