Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into the resource of the IAM role policy attachment in Terraform. Now at a high level overview, we are already aware about the AWS underscore IAM underscore role base resource. What it does. It creates a simple IAM role in AWS. Apart from that, as we know IAM role contains two important components. One is the assume role policy which is the trust relationship, and second is the actual role policy. So whenever we discuss about the role policy, if you want to attach it, you have to make use of this resource of AWS. IAM role underscore policy underscore attachment, which basically attaches a managed IAM role policy to whatever role that gets created. For example, whenever you have a code something similar to this, it will create a IAM role and it will attach the appropriate managed policy whatever you have defined. So let's also go ahead and try it out. So for our reference we are going to use the example that has been defined as part of the documentation for the resource of IAM role policy attachment. So let's look into the example usage. The first important part is the IAM role. Now we know that whenever you create a IAM role, you have to specify the assumed role policy. Now you can add a doc string or you can get the policy from a specific file. However, in the example they have used the data source of AWS IAM policy attachment. And this is the actual policy which will be converted to JSON before it is associated with this role. So this is the first two part. The next important part is the IAM role policy attachment. And within here you have to define the role to which role you want to associate the policy. And you also have to define the policy Arn. So this policy Arn is something that will just look in just a moment. However, before doing that, first let's go ahead and quickly create a role with the appropriate assume role policy. So going back to our KP Labs Terraform folder, let's open up the Visual Studio. And within here we'll quickly create a new file. I'll just call it as role hyphen policy.tf. And whatever example base code that we have seen. Now again in case if example code changes, you are not able to see the exact one. I have added it as part of GitHub so that you can reference to the code that we are using. So I'll copy this. let's add it over here. Again, this is something that we have already discussed earlier and it is simple to understand. So this will create a role with the appropriate policy. First let's go ahead and deploy this resource post which we'll be discussing about the attachment. So from the CLI. Let's go ahead and quickly do a Terraform apply with auto approve. So a test role is created. Now from the AWS console you can quickly go to the IAM service. You can go to roles and you can search for test role. So this is the role. The service here is EC2. Let's open this. And if you look into the trust relationship this is the policy that got associated. Now at this stage the role does not have any permission policy. So in case if you would like you can attach the policy something similar to this. Let's add it. So this is the manual approach. This is something that we do not really want since we are managing the resource through Terraform. So same thing that we have just done. We have to do it through Terraform. And for that we have to make use of the AWS IAM role policy attachment resource. So let's copy this. We'll add it as part of the code. Now, within the role, you can either specify the test role again, which is not directly recommended. Instead of that, you can use this approach. AWS IAM role, which is this one dot role dot name. And the next important part is the policy Arn. Now generally in AWS, whenever you look into the managed policies, whatever policy it might be, let's say administrator access. Each policy has its own Arn, you see. So this is the policy Arn that you have to define. So depending upon what kind of access you want let's select some random policy I'll copy this and you can add the Arn. Here I'll save this once. Then you can do a Terraform apply auto approve. Apply is completed. Now let's go back to roles. We'll search for our test role. Let's refresh. And you see this is the policy that got associated. So I hope with this you understood the basic of the IAM role policy attachment resource. And with this we'll conclude today's video.