Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can create a launch template using Terraform. Now to create a launch template you can make use of the resource of AWS underscore launch underscore template in Terraform. Now the overall approach to creating a launch template is very simple. For example, you see we have created a very simple launch template that contains the name, image ID instance type and VPC security group IDs. And once you have created the launch template, this launch template can further be used to create new set of EC2 instances or even as part of the auto scaling group. So with this set, first let's go ahead and quickly revise the launch template creation part manually post, which will be implementing it through Terraform. So from the AWS console I'll quickly create a launch template. Again, you don't have to do that. The reason why I'm doing it, so that we understand the workflow that we have to implement as part of the Terraform. So let's do one thing. Let's go to Launch templates. I'll quickly create a launch template. Let's just call it as manual template. Now, generally whenever you create a template, there are certain configurations like Ami and everything that you will have to define. So let's just quickly define the Ami or let's just use the quickstart. I'll use the Amazon Linux Ami, whatever is available. That is fine instance type just we'll use T2 micro keypads will avoid. You can also define in case if it is required the security group. You can just select any security group that is available in your region. Storage volume by default is a eight Gib of volume. In case if you'd like, you can add more volumes tags. Also, you can add and you see there are a lot of other configurations. Also you can add as part of the launch template. We do not really want that. I'll simply create this launch template here. All right. So once the launch template is available. So this is the launch template. Once the template is available you can go ahead and launch multiple instances using the template. And you can also add this template as part of the auto scaling configuration here. Now that we understand the basics on how launch templates are created, again, it's a very simple process. Let's look into how we can replicate it as part of Terraform. Now generally as we know that the resource is AWS underscore launch underscore template. And within here there are so many configurations. Here you see the example is quite lengthy because launch template also provides a lot of configuration that we can add. So what we are going to do, we are not going to add some configurations that we have not done as part of the manual approach. We will keep it simple so that we understand the basic workflow. Now within our Terraform folder I will quickly open this up with Visual Studio Code. And within here I will quickly create a new file called as Launch hyphen template. Dot tf. Now the example again as we are discussing in this usage section is quite extensive. We'll avoid that. We'll keep it simple. So let's specify a resource of AWS underscore launch underscore template. We'll give a name. And within here we'll have to specify the configuration. Now if you look into the launch template that we had created let's look into it. What are the options that we had selected here. One option is the ami ID. Second is the instance type. Third is the security group. These are the three major options that we had selected. Let's go ahead and replicate it as part of our Terraform. Now within here if you look into the argument reference first let's search for Ami. In fact it is coming from here. And let's see where exactly we can use it. So the argument name is image underscore id. So I'll specify image underscore id equals to. You can copy the ami id and you can add it over here. This is first part. Second part is the instance type. So within your instance underscore type has the same name. So I will say instance Underscore type is equal to t two micro. And then the last part is the security group. So you can just search for security group and your referencing the VPC security group IDs. So let's specify VPC security group IDs. And within here you can specify the security group ID whatever it may be. And you can add it over here. So this is a very simple launch template that we have created. Now again in case if you have not created a launch template it does not really matter. The values that you define over here can easily be found. So army ID you can easily find from here. So whenever you launch a instance this is the Army ID. The VPC security group ID is also you can easily find. So if you go to security group there will be a security group with the name of default. You can just copy the ID and you can just add it over here. All right. So this becomes our simple launch template. One thing that you will see is missing is the name of the launch template for easy identification. So the launch template that we had created manually had a name of manual template. So the name is important if you just look into the example usage there is an argument of name. So you can just add it here I'll say name of Terraform launch template. Once this is done I'll save this. Let's open this up with our terminal. We'll do a quick terraform validate things look good and we'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Great. So a launch template is created now from the AWS console. If I refresh you see we have one more launch template with the name of Terraform. Now at a later stage, as we know if you want to create EC2 instance, you can create it through the template, whatever template that you have defined based on the requirement. So that's a very high level overview about the creation of launch template using Terraform. And with this we'll conclude today's video.