Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to explore about the installation step related to Chekhov. Now generally if you look into the official documentation here, there are multiple approaches for installation. However, if you try to directly run this command in the operating system like ubuntu, it will not really work. So there are some additional steps that are required. And within our GitHub page, I have documented all of the steps that are required to get Chekhov up and running, and we are going to follow that. Now, again, the commands that you see over here, they are specific for ubuntu 24 LTS. So make sure that you use that. Now I'll quickly show you on how we can set up Chekhov. So generally if you have AWS environment only you can go ahead and quickly launch a server, say Chekhov, and the operating system would be ubuntu. You can use the LTS version, the 24 LTS that you see over here, and you can go ahead and launch the instance directly. All right. In case if you have key pair, you can do that in case if you do not have, you can also proceed without a key pair. All right. So a new server has been created. Now I will also launch one more server in a different cloud environment. Personally I make use of DigitalOcean for the servers that I use. So we'll quickly go ahead and launch a ubuntu server here as well. I'll just launch it in Bangalore. Again, you only need one environment to launch a ubuntu based server. It can be AWS, it can be any other provider. It can be a virtual machine as well. It does not really matter. So again here you have the 24.04 LTS. So any 24 LTS would be good over here. Let's go ahead and quickly launch a server here. And I'll give it a name of Chekhov and I'll create the server. So while this is getting launched, if you look into the AWS environment let's quickly open this. You have this new EC2 instance that is getting created. Now again, since we have launched this EC2 instance without a key pair directly through SSH, we will not be able to log in. Instead, you can use various other options like EC2 connect where you can directly connect to the server through the browser. So now what you can do. You can click on connect. You can click on connect here. And we are connected. Now for our server in DigitalOcean I will copy the IP. Now from the CLI. I will go ahead and I'll quickly connect to this specific server. Now again the user that you use to connect to the server. Again, that will depend upon the cloud environment that you are using. Some allows directly root based login like how we saw in DigitalOcean. Here you see we directly connected with root. However, in AWS generally the root login is disabled if you try to SSH via terminal. In such cases you generally have very specific user like ubuntu or EC2 hyphen user that will be used, for example, whenever you select the Ami. In fact, this is a newer feature. Earlier it was not there. It will also show you the user that you can use to login to. So if you try to log in with root user, it will not really work specifically in AWS anyways. So once you are connected to a server, these are the commands that you need to run. Now in AWS you can just clear the screen here. Switch to the root user since as we are discussing, the default user is ubuntu. The first command again is the apt get update. So let's add it here. We'll also run this in the CLI of DigitalOcean. Now at this stage you see you are getting error y. It is stating it is held by process 1 to 4 one. So in such case, what you can do is you can just wait for some amount of time and this lock will go away. So now when you try to run it again you see, the lock went away. The AWS step is completed. So in AWS we'll start with the step two. And we'll go ahead and run it here. So the same command will also run it in DigitalOcean. So it will ask for confirmation. You can just add a Y. Now it is time for the third command. Let's go ahead and copy this. Now again this. You have to run it in both the places. At this stage I have just added AWS but we'll be removing it after this video. So in all the places you have to run this. So let's run here, add a Y for confirmation. Then we'll run the fourth command. Once you have done that, let's go with the fifth command. And the last command is to install Checkov. So let's go ahead and install Checkov. This can take a minute or two. So let's go ahead and wait for this. Great. So the installation is done. Once it is installed, you can just run the checkoff command here and you should get an output. Now, one more thing that I wanted to show you. Let's say that you close this and you connect to the EC2 instance once again. So let's do that. So now when you connect to the instance now let's clear the screen. When you do a sudo here. And when you try checkoff you see it does not really work. So if you want to get the checkoff what you need to do you have to run this specific command. Let's copy this. Let's add it here. And once you have done that when you try checkoff you see it is working. So coming back to our server in DigitalOcean the earlier command has completed. So let's also go ahead and try it out. We'll start with the third command. Great. We'll use the fourth. Let's clear the screen. Let's copy the fifth command. And we'll copy the final command to install Chekhov. So let's quickly wait for a minute for the installation to complete here. Great. So the installation has been completed. Now, when you run the Chekhov command, you see things are working. And similar to the AWS environment that we saw that in case if you log out and you connect to the server again, then Chekhov will not directly work. So what you need to do, you have to run this specific command and then you can start experimenting with Chekhov. Great. So that's a high level overview on how you can install Chekhov. From the next video onwards we'll be going and exploring Chekhov in more detail. So with this we'll conclude today's video.