Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can create an auto scaling group with Terraform. Now again, the overall process is quite simple and you have to make use of the AWS Auto Scaling Group resource to create an auto scaling group. Now again, the configuration here is also simple. You have to define minimum size, maximum size, desired capacity, and the availability zone in which the EC2 instances will be launched as part of the Auto Scaling group. One more point to note is that whenever you are creating Auto Scaling Group, there are multiple ways that you can use to define the overall template of the EC2 instance. It can be launch configuration, it can be launch template, and so on. In the newer approach, launch template is something that is recommended. Now before we go ahead and implement it through Terraform, let me quickly show you the basic process of auto scaling group creation in AWS so that we can then replicate the workflow using Terraform. So generally, again you don't have to do that. I am just quickly showing you. So when you create auto scaling group let's just call it as manual hyphen ASG. And within here you see it is asking us for the launch template. You also have the option to switch to the launch configuration. However, the newer approach is the launch template and you need to have a launch template. Now in the earlier video, we already discussed about creation of launch template. So we'll just be selecting the launch template that we had created earlier. Now you have to specify the availability zone and subnets. I'll just use two of them. I'll click on next. Now you have load balancing whether you need load balancer or not. I'll just use no load balancer and other default configuration which is set as no. Let's click on next. Desired capacity I'll just use it as two. Minimum as one. Maximum desired as two. We'll just leave everything as default. Let's do a next let's do a next next. And we'll create the auto scaling group. All right. Now since desired capacity is two total of two EC2 instance will be launched. So if you have to verify, let's do that. So here you see two EC2 instances got launched. And this EC2 instance will be based on the configuration that we have defined as part of the launch template. Great. So the overall creation of auto scaling group is simple. Again, there are a lot of flexibility that is available whenever you create auto scaling group. However, we want to keep it simple so that we can replicate it in Terraform as well. As we were discussing, the resource of AWS Auto Scaling Group allows you to create Auto Scaling Group in AWS. The overall approach is very simple. Again, the example that is given as part of the example usage section is quite extensive. You see there are a lot of options that have been available. We are going to keep it simple. Now one more thing before we try it out. As we are discussing that there are multiple ways in which you can supply the EC2 instance related configuration. You have a launch configuration, you have a launch template, and so on. Both of them are supported. And similarly in Terraform also you have launch configuration, you have launch template that are available. So you see you have a different example. At this stage you have a different example Maybe at a later stage it will change. I'll add this example in our GitHub page. So at a later stage, if our documentation changes then you don't really have to worry here. So let's go ahead and copy this base example here. Now in the earlier video we had created the launch template. So I am not really going to destroy it because this is something that will be needed. I'll go ahead and I'll add one more file related to the auto scaling group. Now within here one of the important part is the launch template. And within here you can give a ID either you can directly give the launch template ID. So for example this specific ID that you see you can either provide this or the better one is you reference to this launch template. In fact let's just remove this part. This is not required. So you have AWS Launch template which is referencing to this resource. The name here is this. So I'll just say this.id. All right. Version is latest. That is fine. There can be multiple versions. We are just using whatever the latest version is there. Now replicating what configuration we had added as part of the auto scaling group. The desired capacity was to. Maximum size was two. Minimum size was one, and in the availability zone we had specified two. I'll say us East one. Be all right. I'll save this. Now at this stage you have two EC2 instances that are running as part of our auto scaling group that we had created. Just for simplicity, I'll just delete this manual auto scaling group. So the status is deleting. If I refresh this, the instances are shutting down and it will be terminated. So the configuration I'll just save this. Let's quickly open up the terminal. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Validate things. Seems to be good I'll go ahead and I'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve. So the resource is created. Now if you want to verify you can go to auto scaling groups. You can just refresh this. You should see this is the auto scaling group. Now the reason why you have such a long name is because you have not really defined the name associated with the auto scaling group. So in case if you would like, you can also do that. Let's look into the argument section. So within here you have the name which is at this stage optional. So you can make use of that. However at this stage let's go ahead and refresh. So the desired capacity is two. If I refresh this you should have two EC2 instances that are running as part of AWS's. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the basics of Auto Scaling Group and also how it makes use of the launch template to get the base template of EC2 instances based on which the new EC2 instances will launch. Now, since EC2 instances are running, we don't really want that, so it is better to go ahead and destroy it to avoid any unexpected charges. Great. So it took around one minute for the overall resources to be deleted. Go ahead and do that to avoid any unexpected charges. So with this, we'll conclude today's video.