Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video at a high level overview, we'll go ahead and look into how we can create a S3 bucket in AWS and attach the appropriate bucket policies to the bucket. Now overall, the creation of the S3 bucket is very simple. You have to make use of AWS underscore S3 underscore bucket resource, and you have to specify the bucket name. And that's about it. The S3 bucket will be created for you. Once the S3 bucket is created. You might also want to attach a bucket policy to the bucket. And in order for that to happen, you have to make use of the resource of AWS underscore S3 underscore bucket underscore policy. And then you have to specify the bucket where the policy must be attached to, and also the exact policy document that must be associated with the S3 bucket. So that's a high level overview. Let's go ahead and quickly try it out. Now before we do that, let me quickly show you some example related to the bucket and the bucket policies so that we can quickly get a gist on what we are planning to do. So in the S3 bucket, I'll just open up one of the random S3 buckets that I have. it must have the bucket policy. And yes, it has. So if you look into the bucket policy, you see this is how the bucket policy looks like. Now again, depending upon the requirement the bucket policy will also differ. But what we want. We want to create an S3 bucket. And we want the bucket to have some kind of a bucket policy. So as we were discussing for bucket policy you have to make use of AWS underscore S3 underscore bucket underscore policy resource. Now the example usage here is quite simple. Let's explore this. First you are creating an S3 bucket. Then you are using the AWS S3 bucket Policy resource. And we are specifying the bucket here. So whatever bucket gets created, it has been specified here and in the policy you can either add a here doc string, you can reference it from a specific file, or here you are referencing it from the data source of AWS IAM policy attachment. All right. And within this specific data source, you have defined the actual bucket policy that will be converted to JSON and Post, which it will be associated with the S3 bucket. So let's go ahead and try it out. I'll copy this example now again in case the example changes. The base example that we are seeing as of now is part of our GitHub repository so that you can reference to it. So from our KP Labs Terraform folder I'll quickly open up the Visual Studio once. Then let's create a new file of S3, say Bucket policy.tf and I'll save the contents here. Let's quickly explore this. What it is trying to do. First a bucket gets created. Now again you have to ensure that the bucket name is unique. So let's just call it as KP labs bucket. I'll just add some random digits here. So first the bucket will be created. Once the bucket is created. Now it's time for bucket policy. Now, since this bucket policy is not directly added here, the data source will first be called whatever policy that you have added here. This will be converted to JSON and then it will be associated with the S3 bucket. So this kind of workflow is something that you need to remember now just for simplicity. What you can do this identifier part, you can just replace it with the AWS account number, whatever you have. So just for simplicity, I will just copy the AWS account number and I'll just replace it here. And we are good to go. I'll save this. Make sure that you have a different bucket name from the CLI. I'll quickly do a Terraform apply auto approve. Great. So our S3 bucket and the bucket policy has been created. So I'll just copy the bucket name and to verify if things are working I'll go back to S3. We'll search by our bucket name. If it is not appearing you can just do a refresh. So this is the bucket. Now if you look into the permission this is the bucket policy. And this is the valid JSON that has been computed here. Great. So that's a very high level overview about the creation of S3 bucket and how you can associate a bucket policy with the S3 bucket here. So with this we'll conclude today's video.