Hi everyone and welcome back. Today at a high level overview, we are going to discuss about source profile that you can add as part of the AWS config file. Now the source underscore profile that you add as part of a specific profile in the config file, it indicates which profiles credentials should be used as the source to assume an IAM role. For example, here you have a profile of IAM. You have specified a role Arn and this is the role Arn and you have a source underscore profile is equal to base. So now what will happen internally is that AWS will go ahead and use the credentials associated with the base profile to assume the IAM role that is specified in the role Arn here. Now if we look into it you have a profile of base. You have a profile of IAM. And in the credentials file you only have the credentials associated with the base profile. Now at this stage we know that since you have a profile of base and credentials of base, whenever you use base profile, it will use this specific credentials. Now since source underscore profile is also specified as base, this will also go ahead and use the credentials of base to assume the role that is specified in the role. Arn. So let's go ahead and also quickly try this out. Now within the AWS account, let's go ahead and quickly just for our setup, we'll create a IAM role that can be assumed by this account itself. We'll give this role a S3 full access and let's just call it as S3 access IAM role. I'll copy this also and we'll create the role. Once this role is created let's search for this. And we'll use this to get the Arn at a later stage. Now from my workstation, I'll quickly open up the AWS folder, which contains the default access and secret key. Let's open this with Visual Studio Code. And within here you have a simple default profile with the default credentials. Now let's say that you add an additional profile. Let's just call it as S3 access. And within here let's specify role Arn equals to. We'll copy this Arn. We'll add it here and we'll save this. Now at this stage when you do a aws S3 ls it will use the default credentials which we know it will work. Now we'll run the same command, but with a profile of S3 access. And you see, we are getting a message stating partial credentials found in assumed role, missing source profile or credential source. So now what you can do. You can add a source profile here. And we'll say default just for simplicity. All right. In the credentials file we don't really have to explicitly add any other credentials. It will use these credentials only. And now when you run this command again you see it is working. Now one more thing that I wanted to show that when you add a source profile of default and let's say you remove this default profile. All right I'll remove this. I'll click on save. But the default profile related credentials are still present. And when you do aws s3 ls again you see it is working again. All right. So the credentials are very important because these are the credentials that the profile will use for the overall role assumption to happen. Anyways I will just revert back the changes so that we have it for the future practicals. Great. So at a high level overview, I hope with this you understood the basics of source underscore profile. And with this we'll conclude today's video.