Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video at an overview, we are going to discuss about some of the important examination rules and requirements that you have to ensure that you fulfill before you sit for the exams. The first requirement again this is straightforward, which is the exam portal, are generally attached to your GitHub account. So if you are logging into the exam portal it will ask you to first login to the GitHub post which you will be logged in here. Now for example, you have an associate exam as well as the professional exam. For any exam, let's say you do a register for the exam. It will take you to the Searchmetrics portal and in my case you see it automatically logged in. Why? Because I am also logged in to GitHub. Now the same thing if I open the page in incognito mode, and if I quickly do a register for the exam. You see first it is asking me to sign in with GitHub and post. This will log in to the exam portal. All right so this is the requirement number one. The next requirement is related to the identification. Now, before the exam starts, you have to prove your identity. And how will you prove the identity by showing the unexpired government issued physical ID card here. So digital IDs are not allowed. You need to have a physical ID card that you will have to show to the proctor through the camera, and only after that the proctor will release the exam for you. Now, one very important part that you have to remember that all the names that are available as part of the identity card that you show to the proctor must match the names that is present in the HashiCorp Certification Exam Portal account. If there is a mismatch, then Proctor will not release the exam and unnecessarily multiple issues will be created. So you have to make sure that the names align. So related to the identification requirement, let's discuss few more pointers. First one is that your account must have all names that are on your ID. This is something that we saw. Now, in case if you also have a middle name or more than one given or surnames, these must also be accounted as part of your HashiCorp account. I'll quickly show you this and also the names that is in your account must be in the same language and characters as the names in your ID. This is also something which is important. Now, for example, if you look into my profile, you see this is how my name looks like Zeal Haron Vohra. Generally, I use Zeal Vohra, which is the first name and the last name, but in the portal, since my identity card also has the entire name, this is the name that has been reflected. In fact, if you look into the profile, if you look into the name, this is the name. Now generally what happens is there is no option of middle name when you add it as part of your profile. So in such case middle name, you can add it as part of your first name itself. So you have a first name, you have a middle name and you have last name. All right. Now again note that you will not directly be able to update the name. In fact, it has written that name below can only be updated by contacting the HashiCorp certification support and the name change request must be made at least three business days before your exam appointment. Now discussing about the identification requirement, there are a few recommendations that I wanted to share from my side based on my personal experience. Generally, you will see that many of the identity based cards that have been issued by government. The text in these cards are quite small and it might look blurry in the camera. So before you in fact book the exams, it is very important that you go ahead and place the identity card in front of the camera that you have and see if the text are appearing clearly. If it is not appearing clearly in the exam, the proctor will not release the exam. Very important point to remember. For example, let's say that you have a government issued identity card that is available. So before you book the exam and before you set the exam, put the identity card in front of the camera. Something similar to what you see now. Again, I'm not sure on how exactly this is appearing at this stage, but you have to ensure that in case if there is a name as part of this identity, the name part is appearing very clearly. Sometimes we have seen that students do not have a very good laptop camera, and the name does not really appear clearly. In this case. The proctors are quite strict. They might not release the exams. This is one point to remember generally what I do. In fact, I have a decent camera. However, still sometimes you see that the name are not really appearing very clearly. It looks a little blurry. So just for a backup, what I do, I also keep my passport ready. Now when we discuss about passport, the text size are much more larger compared to other government issued cards like driving license and so on. So just as a backup, I have 2 or 3 different identity card that I always keep ready, passport being one of them. The next important requirement is related to your system. Now, since this is an online exam where Proctor will be connecting to your system and the screen will be shared, you have to ensure that whatever system requirements are mentioned as part of the portal, your computer or your laptop fulfills them. Now, one good thing here is that you have a preflight exam test where it will automatically connect and see if everything is working, and this again is quite useful. Let's also quickly look into it now generally when you schedule an exam. In fact, let me quickly show you this. So we'll go to exam portal quickly. So whenever you book an exam any exam it might be. In fact let's go ahead and try the associate one. One of the initial screen as part of cert wise is the compatibility check. So when you click on Launch System Compatibility check. It will ask you to share your screen because in exam this would be required as well. So I'll click on share. So at this stage session is connected. Video room is connected. Microphone is connected. Sharing screen is connected. However camera is not getting connected. Why? Because it is being used as part of the video. So it is showing device in use. However, in your case, make sure that all of these are green mark before you book the exam. Now personally, what I generally do is whatever exam preflight tests are available, after all of them have succeeded, I also take a screenshot. So in case at a later stage during the exam, if there are some issues that are arising, I can show the screenshot and say that during the preflight test everything was showing perfectly well. I am using the same system for the actual exam. If there are issues, at least I have something to show to HashiCorp so that they can either refund the exam or they can give me a new set of exam booking. All right, so this is one part I'll just quickly close the validation check Now discussing about the system requirements, there are a few important points to note. Generally, HashiCorp recommends using Google Chrome browser for the exams, so make sure that you use that to avoid any issue at the last moment. Along with that, you may only use one monitor during the exam appointment. So this is one point to note. And in case if you are using the external monitor, your laptop screen must be closed. Your proctor will ask you to show this. So make sure that the settings as part of your system are configured accordingly. The next important requirement is related to the physical space. So before the proctor releases your exam, he will ask you to scan your exam environment through the camera and show him how exactly your room looks like. So certain requirements here, no one else is permitted to be in your room. When you are giving the exam, your space must be adequately lit, so it should not be that Proctor is not able to see the room properly. Your desk and work area must be clear. This is quite important. And the electronic item in your room must not be operational. Now, generally when I sit for the exams, my phone is in airplane mode and I keep it in a different room altogether. I do not keep it in the same room. The next important part is that the background noise must be limited as much as possible. Now again, for me, what I generally do is I close my door, I close all of my windows and not the net window. I use the glass window so that in case if neighbors are also speaking over phone, Proctor might assume that someone is giving answer to this guy. So this is something that you should not be taking lightly. Make sure that there is no background noise as much as possible. And the last one again, no phones, smartwatches or other similar devices are allowed in the room. Now just to understand this requirement in a better term, I also wanted to share on how exactly my desk looked like when I was giving the exam. So again, this desk was when I was giving the Terraform professional level exam. So very clear. Desk. You have a simple external keyboard. External mouse. You had this camera and then you have the single screen. I generally do not use laptop. I have a PC, so there is only one external monitor that I had over here. Now one more important thing that I wanted to share is that when you sit for the exam, Proctor will ask you to show your space. So in such cases, if you have the external camera, it will be beneficial for you because it will be much more easier to rotate the external camera. Now, I remember when I was giving the Kubernetes exam. During that time, I did not really have external camera. For one of the exams. I had the inbuilt laptop camera, so then Proctor wanted to see my room. So what I used to do, I used to rotate the entire laptop left and right, up and down to show the entire room. Again, this is a little inconvenient, so in case if you have external camera, it is good in case if you do not really have no need to spend too much again on the external camera, you can use the laptop, but make sure that you practice accordingly beforehand on how you will rotate the laptop to show the room. Now, in my case, the proctor was quite adamant on showing him on what was underneath the table. Now, this again was a little tricky because my external camera cable length was not too long, so it was a little short. I could show him left and right, up and down, but I had to adjust quite a bit to pull the camera to show him under the table based on the requirement. Initially, I just showed him at an overview, thinking that he might say okay, but 2 or 3 times he explicitly specified show me under the table. Clearly I'm not able to see. Then I had to remove the external camera. I had to clear some of the wires, and then I had to show him under the table again. It was quite hassle 4 to 5 minutes when just to show him under the table. But you do not really know in case if you do not show him under the table, he might not release the exams. So this kind of situation would also apply. So make sure that you are sufficient to show the entire room based on the proctor requirements. The next important requirement is related to behavior, so you may not leave your seat. This is important. Now again, this depends upon the exam to exam. For example, when we discuss about Terraform professional exam you have a 15 minute break. So if you want to take that 15 minute break you cannot directly leave your chair. You must request your proctor that you require a break. After Proctor gives you approval, then only you can go ahead and take a break. Otherwise, if you just leave your seat, then Proctor will terminate your exam again. Talking or communicating outside of exam environment is not really allowed, including reading or mouthing questions. This is something that we have seen with some of the students where generally they would like to read. Now they will not read loudly, but they will just read very slowly. The exam question, and this again, is something that Proctor is quite strict about. And in case if you have beverages, it must be in clear container with no writing. Now again, in behavior requirement, along with reading your hand position is also important. So for example, if you try something like this. So Proctor will immediately ask you to remove your hand because it can happen that you might be dictating the question to someone else who is there in the room. So this is also something that Proctor is not always happy about. So make sure that you do not do that. The next point is related to the scheduling requirement. So in case if you want to cancel or reschedule your appointment, you must do so at least 48 hours in advance. This is one important part to remember. If you do cancellation with less than 48 hours notice or not appear for your appointment without documentation, it may result in loss of your exam fees. So make sure that all of the pointers that we are discussing in today's video, you prepare and follow it thoroughly. Now, two more pointers that you have to keep a note of. First one states that make sure that there are no notifications that appear on your screen while you're giving the exam, specifically in the professional level exam. So when we discuss about Terraform Professional, it is a four hour exam which is quite lengthy, and you have to ensure that no notification appears in your windows or in your Mac OS based laptop. Otherwise, Proctor will unnecessarily create issue stating that this notification contains some solution for the exam question and it creates a mess. So this is something that you have to ensure. Now when I was giving Terraform professional exam, a notification did appear it was related to Bitdefender update. Now fortunately, the proctor did not tell anything and I was able to quickly close that notification. However, you have to ensure that no notification appears. So. In fact, let me also quickly show you on what are the things that you can do to avoid any notification, for example, in Bitdefender. Now generally my update check interval was one hour. So generally when you sit for the exams, make sure that you have the highest interval of updates. And also if there is a silent update option make sure that you enable it. Otherwise unnecessary prompt for any of the tool that you have as part of your workstation will create issues for you. And the last pointer states that always verify the updated guidelines that have been released by HashiCorp, so that there is no room for confusion in case if guidelines change, you are kept updated accordingly. For example, in the HashiCorp page, if I'll just click on get ready for your appointment, there are certain FAQs that are available. One of the important FAQs that you should read is the exam appointment rules and requirements. This is the one that we had discussed in today's video. Again, we covered all of the important requirements that needs to be followed. But in case if you would like to read everything in detail, you can go ahead and look into it. There are certain FAQs that are also available that you can go ahead and verify. Great. So that's the high level overview about some of the important exam appointment rules and requirements that you need to follow before you book and sit for the exams. So with this we'll conclude today's video.