Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into the overall process for booking the Terraform professional exam. Now in the Google, when you type Terraform professional exam you will see multiple pages. Make sure that these are the hashicorp.com domains. So let's go ahead and open both of them. Now within here you will see that you have the Terraform associate and the Terraform professional. You can click on register for the exam from here and in other page. Also you can click on schedule an exam. It will take you to the same page. So let's click on register for the exam. So currently I am automatically logged in to the appropriate page over here. You see currently I'm logged in. Now it makes use of the GitHub credentials to connect to this page. So in case if you do not have GitHub signed in then it will ask you to do that. In fact let me also show you. So I'll open this in a different tab. All right. So I have opened it in a incognito mode. And when I click on schedule an exam this time it will not log in login directly because I am not connected to GitHub, so it will show you. Continue with GitHub, you have to click here and then only you will be able to login. Now before you book the exam, one very important part to remember here make sure that your entire name is appearing here. Similar to the government ID including the middle name. All right. And in case if you have any queries, you can directly mail them at this specific email to ensure that these queries are resolved before booking the exams. Anyways, once you have verified that the name and other details are correct, you can click on Exam Platform here. So you have a different page through which you can book the exam. So let's click here. All right. So once you are logged in to the official exam platform here there are multiple Terraform exams that you can see. Each exam has a different price professional exam being the most expensive. So you can click on the appropriate exam click on Get Started. It will ask you to verify through the system compatibility check. This is extremely important. Click here and you can share your screen. So currently here I am getting an error related to webcam because device is in use because I am recording through it. But make sure that all of them are in green box and after all of them are in green box. Also take a full page screenshot related to everything that you see over here. So in case at a later stage, if things are not working, you can prove that your preflight test was successful. But in real world environment during the exams there are issues. So you have a better case in rescheduling the exam for free. Alright, anyways, so let's close this. Once you have verified that the compatibility check is successful then you can click on next. Now within here it will give you a brief summary about the exam. This is the exam that you have booked. This is the duration. This is the proctoring type. Now one very important part that you need to remember is the accommodation. Now earlier there was a separate form that you had to fill. But now they have integrated it as part of the platform. So accommodation is very important in terms that if you have various accommodation requests, like if you want to request a female proctor, etc., this is useful. And one very important one is the extra time accommodation here, which states that English is not your first language. Now typically if you are from Asian countries where English is not your first language, like for example India, then this is one thing that you have to make sure that you select because it will give you 30 minutes extra. And this is very important for the professional exam because the time constraint is the major factor here. All right. So in case if English is not your first language or you have disability, you have to make sure that you click here and then click on continue. All right. So let's just do that. Once this is done then you have to select the appropriate date where you want to schedule the exam. Let's select one random date here. And within here you have multiple options early morning and evening. Based on that you will get a slot. So let me just select say 5:30 a.m. just for an example because this is a big exam, right? It's a four hour exam. So you can select the appropriate time slot where you do not have too much noise in your room or in the environment here. Next part is you can select the location where you will be taking the exam from. Click on next. You will have a review screen. It will show you the total amount, the duration. Now one thing that you see the duration. It has now increased it to two 70 minutes. Two 40 minutes was the base plus 30 minutes because English is not the first language. All right. And now the next part is the credit card. And you have the voucher. Now the professional level exams have two attempts. Let's say you did not clear the exam in the first attempt. Then HashiCorp will give you a voucher code. So then that voucher code can be used to sit for the exam. In the second attempt for free you have to add a voucher code here. All right. In case if it is a first attempt you can click on credit card. You can click on continue. and now you will have to add your appropriate card related information and click on pay. Once your payment is done in the email, you will get a official receipt related to it. So this is the receipt. And along with that and along with that, you will also get the confirmation message related to the exam. With all of the necessary details over here, make sure that whatever date and time that you see in the email is the exact date and time that you have booked the exams for, and you can click on Start and manage the exam in the appropriate time that you have booked. Now again, note that let's say that you have booked the exam at 1130. Then it is better to start the exam 20 to 30 minutes before the proctor will be available. You can go ahead and complete the other checks, like the proctor will ask you to show the room and other details. So all of that will also take 15 to 20 minutes. So it is better to start the exam 20 to 30 minutes earlier as a best practice. Great. So that's a very high level overview on how you can book a Terraform professional level exam. And with this we will conclude today's video.