Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video at a high level overview, we are going to discuss about the exam environment and how exactly it looks like now as we are discussing that the exam is of four hours and the four hour is sometimes not enough. If you have not done intense practice now within your. When you log in to the exam environment, you have to ensure that you know on how exactly it looks like, how fast you can navigate between multiple questions, because that is a key. If you take time in trying to understand the exam environment after your exam has started, then you will not be able to give time to the lab scenarios, which are the most important. Now, before we explore the exam environment, let's go ahead and quickly also look into how you can start the exam. So generally you will get a regular email from HashiCorp stating that your exams are near and from the email itself, you have a link to start and manage your exam reservation. So you can click on this and it will take you to the right page for you to start the exam now when the exam will start, it will simply be opened in a new tab associated with your browser. So it's not a different tool or a different software that you have to install. Within the browser, there will be a separate tab where your exam environment will start and you will be able to connect with the proctor. So basically you have to share your screen, you have to enable your camera. And then the appropriate steps will start. Now when you start the exam you will not automatically get this specific page. First Proctor will verify your identity. He will verify your surrounding and only after he is satisfied will he release the exam. Once the exam is released. This is the initial screen that you will see in the exam, which basically gives you important information about the overall environment. In fact, you can go ahead and look into the slide itself so that you are better prepared. Now if you see you are currently in the pre exam instruction then the next is pre exam Pre-exam survey, then you have the multiple choice question. Then you have the lab scenarios over here. So now that we understand what the pre exam instruction looks like, it basically shows you information related to the lab environment. Now again we'll be discussing about this part in the upcoming slide of this video. But just keep a note that this is one of the screen that you might expect. The second one is the pre exam survey. As we were discussing the pre exam survey is quite straightforward. It will ask you if you are working with HashiCorp or HashiCorp partner. In case if you are working you can go ahead and provide the email. In case if you are not you can simply type Na and click on save and next for the next screen. The next screen is associated with the multiple choice questions. So now MCQ based questions will start. There will be some level of questions. It can be 1520 questions. And after you have completed the questions the next one would be the lab based scenario. Now again it is not necessary that you complete all of the questions. You can also jump to the lab based scenario in case you'd like, but the recommendation is you start with the easy part here. Go with Mcqs and then switch to lab discussing about how exactly the MCQ question works. Like so you see, in the MCQ, you have question number one. Now again, this is not the question associated with the Terraform professional certification. It is a sample associated with Vault Professional. But again the overall screen would look very similar to the one in the screenshot where you have the question and you have to select the correct answer. In case if you are not very confident, you can also click on flag for review. Here you can tick this box and at a later stage you can revisit the question. Now my recommendation is to not spend too much time related to the MCQ question. Now again, this might be tempting because you have access to the HashiCorp documentation and most of the answers you might find as part of the documentation itself. However, if you spend time in the documentation associated with the intention of getting the right answer of MCQ. You will not be able to complete the lab scenarios, because lab scenarios will take lot of time. As we are discussing, it will take 90 to 95% of your time, so you only have 5% of your remaining time for Mcqs. So go ahead and answer as best as possible based on what you know. Don't go to the resource or the documentation page initially. You can flag the question and after lab scenarios. If you have time, then you can explore the documentation and then you can select the right answer accordingly. The next and the most important part of the exams are the lab based scenarios. As we are discussing. Once you have completed the Mcqs, now it is time for the lab based scenarios. There will be multiple set of scenarios here and each scenarios are completely independent. So it's not like if you are not able to do scenario one, you cannot do scenario two. Also, these are different type of scenarios that will assess different type of skills of Terraform. Now one of the great benefit. Again with the lab based scenarios is that you have a very detailed description for many. Lab scenarios. You will also see the architecture diagram on what needs to be implemented or how you. Need to design the overall configuration. So looking into the architecture diagram or looking into. Whatever diagram that the scenario might provide to you, it will become much more simpler. Now when we discuss about scenario, a scenario typically will be divided into multiple set. Of tasks. So it is not like they will just give you a scenario and you have to solve it. They'll give you a task wise information on what needs to be achieved. So for example this is one of the tasks. So as part of the scenario you have a configure node. They will give you a detailed instruction related to what needs to be done. And for many of the scenarios you will also have a validation. Validation is very important. So after you have completed a specific task or after you have completed the scenario, they will give you a validation command. Make sure that you run the command to ensure that the validation succeeds, and if the validation succeeds with a high degree of confidence, you can say that you have successfully completed the scenario from the perspective of exam. Many a times what happens is that the solution that you might implement it would work, but it would fail the validation check. In my case, it had happened for the first lab scenario, which again was quite extensive. The overall question and the task were completed successfully. But there was one specific pointer that I did not read very carefully as part of the question. I did it based on the different approach, but the overall solution was working. But when I was checking with the validation step, I was not really getting the output. So then I again was reading each and every task very carefully. And then I realized that the solution that I had implemented, although it is working, but it is not the exact solution that the task was expecting me to configure. So based on the exact. Task description that is specified, you have to implement it accordingly. If you do it, then the validation will also be successful. So again you have to read each and every task quite carefully in the exams. The next important part is the right sidebar associated with each scenario. This is very important. Now this right sidebar here will contain very important information here. One of the important information would be the username and password associated with the cloud provider. For example when we discuss about AWS Cloud provider. So in the right sidebar you will get the username and password that you need to log in to the AWS Management Console. Along with that, the right sidebar will also contain the access key and the secret key that you need to configure as part of your code. So you have to copy it from the right sidebar here. Along with that, you will also get the appropriate resource link so you can directly open the resource link associated with the scenario from here. And this becomes much more easier, as you don't really have to search all the places in the documentation for the appropriate scenario here. All right. So this again is very, very important. The next important point that you have to keep a note is that in the exam question itself, there will be a hyperlink to automatically open the scenario folder in the Visual Studio Code as well as in the CLI. So you just click on the hyperlink and it will automatically open the scenario related code as part of the Visual Studio. And you will also have a different link where you can open the scenario as part of the CLI. So once you have say there is some broken code, you have fixed the code from the Visual Studio. Now you have to do a Terraform apply. So then you'll open up the CLI. And this CLI you can run the Terraform plan terraform apply and complete the validation steps as well. Now, in fact, let me also show you how the hyperlink might look like. For example, if you see in this specific task there is a instruction which says click SSH scenario a node to open a session. So as soon as you click over here, the CLI session associated with the scenario will open. Similarly, you will also have a hyperlink related to Visual Studio. If you click on it, the Visual Studio will automatically open the code for you that you have to fix as part of the scenario. Now, in fact, if you look into the initial screen here, you see there is a scenarios folder in the desktop. This scenarios folder will contain all of the scenarios where you will be tested against, and when you manually open that desktop scenarios folder. Inside this, there will be scenario one two, three, four, depending upon how many scenarios the exam will expect you to test. Now again, note that ideally, you do not really have to manually open this in Visual Studio Code since the hyperlink will be present in the exam question itself. It will automatically open this folder in Visual Studio Code and the CLI, and this will save you time. The next important point to note, as we know that not all of the pages are available for you to access as part of the exam. So in case if you try to access a page which is not allowed, for example, in this screenshot you have youtube.com. So immediately you'll get an error stating that access to this content is denied during the exam. No need to worry, your exam will continue. You can again go back to the exam page accordingly. Now, when I was giving the exam, this was the page that came up one time. Basically, I was going through the HashiCorp documentation and there was a link. When I opened that link, it went to a tutorial page. Now HashiCorp tutorial page are not allowed in the exam. And this kind of error came. So again you can switch back to the exam. This is not really something that needs to be worried about. Along with that you also have to keep a note on how you can copy and paste again. Note that this is a remote workstation, so in order to copy and paste, you can either use these set of commands or you can use right click. Personally for my exams I prefer the right click option. It is much more easier for me. But in case if you'd like, you also have the command based option that is available now. The last part after you have completed all of the labs would be the post exam survey. So you will have to provide the email address. How did you find the exam? Will you recommend the exam to your colleagues and so on. So once you have completed the Post exam survey, you can complete your overall exams. After you have completed the exams, you will get the results soon. The detailed results are generally available within 48 hours, but at least the pass and failed result is something that you can expect within few hours after you have submitted the exams. So that's a high level overview about the overall exam environment. And with this we will conclude today's video.