Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, I wanted to share some of the important tips for the Terraform professional exam. And in case if you follow, it will be beneficial for you. So let's go ahead and quickly explore this. Now the first important tip is to take the backup of all of the base lab scenarios. Now, generally, before you start to work on any of the lab scenarios, you will see that these lab scenarios are stored in your desktop under the folder of scenarios. So depending upon how many scenarios are present. So in this screenshot there are five scenarios. So before you start with your lab practical where you open the scenario, you modify the code and so on, take backup of all of them. So what I generally do is I take a copy. So I copy all of these scenarios from the scenarios folder. And in the desktop I paste them. So whenever in case if it is required, if I modify the code which should not have been done due to which things are not working. So from the desktop I can take a backup of the previous code and use it as part of my lab to ensure that the base code is available. Now, the second tip is related to hard coding the AWS provider block as part of the code. Now you will have multiple set of scenarios in the exam. Each scenario will have its own set of access, secret key, and AWS credentials that you can access from the right side of the window. Now, generally for the exams, it is recommended that you explicitly add the provider block along with the necessary access and secret key in the code itself, so that there is no room for confusion. So in my case, I copied this specific template from the registry. I added it in the notepad file, and for each scenario I used to copy this, I used to manually add in the main.tf file, and I would replace the access secret key according to the scenario that was available. The third tip that you can try is choosing the easy scenarios first. Now in the exams. There are some scenarios which are quite lengthy, while some scenarios might take little amount of time. So what you can do is by just reading the scenario, you can look into the number of tasks associated with the scenario. You can look into the description associated with the task, and then you can quickly identify that okay, scenario A seems to be taking lot of time. Scenario B might take less time. Scenario C might take the least time among all. So in this case you can try and complete the scenario number C first, then scenario B and keep scenario A at the last. So in this case you can ensure that you have completed most of the scenarios considering that time is the major factor. The next tip is related to focusing on the task level at each scenario here. Now note that each scenario will be divided into multiple sets of tasks. Now for some scenario, it can happen that a specific task is dependent on the previous task. So if you do not complete task one then you will not be able to complete task two. In some scenario, it can happen that this specific dependency is not there. For example, task one is independent. Task two is dependent on task one. Task three is dependent on task one. So in this case let's say that you have completed the task one, but you are stuck at task two. You do not really know the solution and trying different things will take time. And the task three seems to be easy. So what you can do complete task one, complete task three and leave task two at the last. So in case at the last, if you have time then you can complete task two. So at least you will get some benefit. Since you have completed task one and you have completed task three. The next important tip is to be familiar with the documentation related to the important topics that are part of the exams. We are going to discuss about some of the important topics as part of the exam in the upcoming video, but you have to be very familiar with the documentation. Generally, in the scenarios right hand bar you will have the documentation link, but in case if the documentation link is not appropriate and you find that there are better documentation available with a ready made solution code, then for such scenarios, you have to be prepared on where you can find the appropriate documentation code. So let's also quickly look into this part. Now. Currently I'm in the Terraform documentation. Now when we discuss about documentation you have the configuration language. You have the Terraform CLI and you have the ACP Terraform. So these are the three very important categories here. Now whenever you open one among them for example configuration language. So now you will get all of the important pointers like modules. So if you have a specific lab scenario for modules you can quickly open this up from here. If I go back if you go to Terraform CLI. Now these are CLI related documentation that you can see over here. And the third one is the HCP Terraform. Now primarily most of your time will go into the configuration language documentation. So let's quickly open this up. And within here you have a filter. And in the filter you can filter based on the topic. Now for example let's say that we have a topic related to remote state. So when you try to find it from here, you see I'm not really getting any output here. So in such case if I go to configuration language, if I type here, you see immediately I am getting the output. So if I open the remote state, if I explore the file, let's say you have to implement Terraform remote state for one of the practical. And you searched it, you got the right page. But in the page the code of remote state is not really present. All right. So there are some hyperlinks here. If you open up the hyperlink you see again this is the Terraform remote state data source. And within here there are some examples that are available for remote back end. But since you have exam based on a specific provider like AWS, you need example related to AWS provider from the perspective of remote state data source. And now in the documentation, you are not really able to find the AWS provider specific example that makes use of the S3 backend. So there are some options like S3 object resource type, S3 object data source. If you open this again, you do not really see an example related to remote state data source for S3 backend. So if you are not really prepared to identify where the right code comes from at the exam unnecessarily, it will take time. Now, if you know that the remote state data source for S3 backend is available in the backend of S3, so now in the backend of S3. This is the main back end and if you go a bit down, you see you also have a remote state data source based example that is available. So it is now much more easier. You can directly copy this code. You can then copy this code and you can configure things quite quickly. And this is the reason why your familiarity with documentation is very important. The next tip is related to bad code and validation. Now note that bad code is completely fine for the exams, as long as you are able to achieve the solution. Now, the exam will not really verify if you have hardcoded your credentials. If you have followed all of the bad security practices or not, as soon as you achieve the solution, that's about it. So as we are discussing, most of the scenarios will also have the validation command. So after you have achieved the solution, you can check the validation command to see if you are getting the output as expected, and that would complete your overall task. And the last tip is that you should not have too much anxiety here. Since there are two attempts now. Exam is challenging, there is no doubt. And because of that, HashiCorp has intentionally given two attempts for the professional exam. Now you should be thoroughly prepared to clear the exam on the first attempt itself. And all of the pointers that we are discussing as part of the exam preparation section should be thoroughly followed. Now, in case if, say, things are not going your way, that is also fine. You always have a second attempt in which you will be able to clear the exams with great scores. Since the first attempt might give you a lot of learning related to how you can prepare. Now, before we conclude, I will give you one example. So we had a student from a CD course which is the Kubernetes application developer course. He was preparing for the certification. He completed our course and he booked the exam. Now CD is also two attempt exam. Now in the first attempt, he was not able to clear the exam. So I got a message and we were discussing like, what are the areas that he can improve upon? And he said that the lab based exams were the first for him. So this is the first lab based exam that he was sitting, and he spent little longer time reading the instructions, which were not really necessary. He could have directly focused on the questions instead of reading the instruction related to the lab environment. And due to that, he was not able to complete some of the questions. So in the second attempt, he was able to score somewhere around 98% in the CD exam. And he was like bro for that specific certification. So this is the reason why even for this course, we had a different video that explained the exam environment so that you do not really have to spend too much time on that and instead focus directly on the question here. All right. So that's a very high level overview about some of the important tips that you have to keep in mind for the exams. And with this we will conclude today's video.