Hi everyone, and welcome to the part one of the important pointers for the Terraform professional exam. So let's get started. Now the first important pointer that you should know is that mastering modules is a key on clearing the exams. So you should be very familiar with all the topics related to modules and specifically the refactoring module. Scenarios based documentation page is quite important. Let's in fact look into it now when you explore the learning path associated with Terraform professional certification. We are more interested in modules at this stage. Now in the study tips, there are two pointers that they ask you to review. First one is to build and use the local module. Again, this is the basic on how you can create the module. So this again is one of the prerequisite. You should definitely know about the basics on how you can create module, root module, child module and others. And apart from that the main part that we were discussing is the refactoring part. Now in the refactoring part, you will see that there are multiple set of scenarios here, like if you want to rename a module, if you want to split one module into multiple set of modules. So all of these refactoring scenarios are quite important from exam perspective. It can happen. That exam question might ask you against the very specific refactoring scenario as part of the task. So you should be familiar with that. Now again we have already discussed about the refactoring scenario in our module section, so make sure that you practice it thoroughly. The second pointer is related to moved blocks, so you should know on how you can use the moved block both between the resource level as well. When you have a resource as part of the root module, and you migrate or refactor that specific resource to a child module over here. So both these scenarios, you should be prepared. Now when we discuss about the module part you will also see it as part of refactoring. So for example, the basic code is available in the refactoring documentation itself. So you should be familiar with this. Now again note that it is not necessary that you have to memorize the overall solution. The documentation is already available for you in the exams, so if you are aware about the documentation code and how you can modify it based on the use case, it becomes much more simpler. So not too much to worry about. Just focus on what these specific scenarios are and that should be good to go. The next important pointer is that you should be familiar with the lifecycle meta argument. So this lifecycle meta argument that you can add in the resource block. And also inside the lifecycle meta argument, there are multiple approaches that you can add. For example create beforedestroy equal to true. Ignore changes equal to what are the changes that you want to ignore. So it can happen that in the exam question they might ask you a use case where you have to implement a life cycle block as part of the resource. So you should be familiar about this as well. Now, in fact, let me also quickly show you. So when you look into the documentation of HashiCorp, when you go to the configuration language and when you just type life cycle, now again, it can happen that at a later stage the workflow might change, but I am just giving you an overview. So in this life cycle meta argument based page, they have already included the ready made code associated with create before destroy. Then you also have the ignore changes based code that is available, so you can directly make use of this code based on the use case that the exam provides. So again it becomes easier. Just remember on how you can find the appropriate documentation page. The next important part is related to the overall provider configuration. So when we discuss about it one of the very important pointers is you should know about the alias as well as the provider meta argument that you can add as part of the resource block. For example, here you have provider block of AWS one with the region of US east, one second with the US West two. The US West two has an alias of West. So in case if you want to create a resource in this specific region and this specific credentials, then you have to explicitly use the provider meta argument and specify AWS followed by the alias name. In case West. The next important pointer is related to the configuration alias. Specifically, when you have multiple aliases that are used as part of the provider block in root module, you should know on how you can pass it to the child module as well. For example, if you see in the root module you have a module of SG and it is referencing to a child module with the name of network, and the right hand code is associated with the network child module. Now add a root module level. You have to specify the providers block which is a map. And then you can specify AWS dot prod equals to AWS dot Mumbai. So AWS dot Mumbai is basically the alias name that you have set for the provider. For example, this alias that we are discussing. So this alias equals to Mumbai is what this part is referencing to. And the left part is referencing to the name that needs to be used as part of the configuration alias. So whatever you add here, like AWS dot prod, same thing must be added as part of the child module as well. And whenever the resources are created in the child module, you have to add the provider meta argument and you have to specify this specific part, otherwise it will use the default provider. All right. This is a workflow that is important for you to remember. Now. In fact, let me also quickly show you on where you can find this workflow from the documentation because it is important. Now again, note that the overall workflow documentation can change at a later stage, but this is just a jist. Now since we are discussing about modules now in the module development you have providers within module. So within your you will have the option related to this. So you see configuration aliases. So this needs to be added as part of child module. And also within here there is a good example. This example. This is a pretty neat example where you have two provider block of AWS with different alias. And you are passing it as part of the providers block in the root module here, and as part of the child module, you are using the configuration alias. Now again, note that once you have used the configuration alias, any resource that is part of the child module in that resource. Also, you have to add the provider meta argument to decide that the resource must be created based on this provider block or this specific provider block. So this entire workflow is something that you should practice. The code is already available in the documentation, so it will be easier to replicate in case if such scenario is asked in the exams. The next important pointer is related to the data sources. Now within here you can focus on the list of data sources that is explicitly available in the exam orientation page of HashiCorp. And these are quite important. So just for simplicity, I have also added the list of important data sources that you have to be familiar with. You can also get the latest list from the exam orientation page. Now let me in fact show you. So if you look into the professional exam, let's look into the exam orientation page. And within here you have these data sources. You see you have this set of data sources. So you have to be quite familiar with these data sources. They are important along with that for some of the data sources like AWS underscore, Ami or for example AWS underscore subnet. These are not very straight forward data. So that means that you have to add certain set of filters to get the right set of subnet or the right set of Amis. So you should also be familiar with the filters part. The next important scenario is related to the S3 backend plus remote state data source based workflow. So you should know that if a specific TF state file is present in a S3 bucket. Now from a different project, how you can reference to this tf state file using the remote state data source and how you can fetch the value from the output values here. So again, we have a very detailed practical associated with this in our course. So make sure that you understand the end to end workflow. The next important part is that you should have a good familiarity with IAM. When we discuss about IAM it can be IAM user, IAM role, IAM instance profile, IAM policies, both the resource based as well as the data source based and you should know on how you can attach trusted policy to the IAM role, whatever you create, and also attaching the IAM policy to both the IAM role and users. This can be a custom policy. It can be a managed policy that is available. Along with that, you should also be very familiar with the AWS provider specific configuration. One important configuration here is you should know on how you can set the shared config and credentials file. So in case if exam states that this is the access key and this is the secret key, create a new file under a specific location and make sure that your code refers to the credentials from that file. So in such case you have to add the shared config file the shared credentials file. In case if there are multiple access secret keys, then you also have to make use of the named profile. So your concept related to named profile should also be very clear. This again is quite important. The next important part is that you must be familiar with what type of content goes inside the AWS config file and the AWS credentials file. So in the earlier video we were discussing on how we can reference to the AWS config file and the AWS credentials file as part of the provider block. But what goes inside this conf and credentials file is something that you should also be familiar with. What happens if there are any mistake that is part of the config file due to which things are not working? Do you know on how to fix those? So it is important that you are very familiar with what goes in the config file. What goes in the credentials file here. Along with that, you should also be familiar on how you can make use of assume role and add it as part of the provider block as well as the config file. For example, let's say that you want the resources to be created by assuming a specific role in AWS, so you can add the role Arn near explicitly as part of the provider block in case if you do not want that, it can also go as part of the config file here. So this is the AWS conf file. So in this config file under the specific profile you can add the role Arn and specify the exact role Arn. So this part will also work. The next important part is related to the source profile in config file. This again is very important. Now when you look into this AWS conf file you have the profile call. As marketing admin you have a role Arn. This is the role Arn and you have a source profile is equal to user one. So what exactly this code does is something that you should be familiar with. For example, in this case if you run commands with hyphen hyphen profile of marketing admin, which is this, then behind the scenes CLI will use the credentials that are defined in a separate profile called as user one to assume the role with this specific Arn that is part of the marketing admin profile, so the credentials of user one will be used to assume this specific role. So let's do one thing. Let me also quickly show you on how you can reference this from the documentation perspective. Otherwise this becomes a little difficult to remember. Now when we discuss about the AWS provider related configuration, you can directly go to the main AWS provider page, and within here you have good amount of examples that are available. This is the example of access and secret key that you can hardcode as part of your code. Then if you go a bit down, this is the shared config file and shared credentials file based example along with the appropriate profile. And then the assume role based example is also available here, which is important to know. So this is associated with the first example. The second example based configuration. If you want to understand in more detail then it is not available in the Terraform docs, but it is available in AWS documentation. Now in the AWS documentation, if you specify, say CLI, then you have the command line interface user guide. Let's open this. And within here if you go to the configure the AWS cli you will generally get the options from here. So if I quickly open this you don't have to go to. So you have to go with other credentials for example long term credentials. So here you see you have the required examples. And again this is quite detailed. So you have example related to source profile that is also available. So in case if there is any confusion you can reference to this AWS documentation which is available in exams as well. The next pointer that you have to keep a note is associated with the default tags at a provider level. So we have already discussed that if you add it here, then it will be inherited for all of the resources that are part of that specific code that supports tagging in AWS. Along with that, you should know on how you can set a specific version for a provider. Earlier, we used to add it as part of the provider block, which is deprecated, but in the newer version you add it as part of the required provider block under Terraform settings. So this is also something that you should be aware of. And also note that based on the version of the provider, some resource type might be supported, some might not be supported. So if you have a new resource type and you are using the older version of the provider, it will not work. So what you need to do, you have to use the newer version of the provider to ensure that the newest resource types are supported. The next point to note is that you have to be familiar with the Auto Scaling group and the launch template, and again, we have discussed about this in our practical video. Make sure that you understand what each one of these are and how they are interconnected. The next important pointer is related to the familiarity with the file format. Now, generally when we look into the prerequisite, the documentation states that you should be familiar with JSON, CSV, and YAML. However, from the perspective of exam, even if you are familiar with one of them, it is quite good enough. What I would suggest is to be familiar with two. So for example, you can be familiar with CSV and you can be familiar with JSON. Now sometimes what happens is exam will say that you have a file. Now same file will be available in three different format. It can be JSON, CSV and YAML. And exam will say that you need to extract some information from that file. So you can select the appropriate file format depending upon what you are comfortable with. All of them will ultimately have the same content, but you have to make use of the appropriate function. For example, if you want to fetch some information from the JSON file, you have to make use of the function of JSON decode. Then for CSV you have a function of CSV decode, and after you fetch the contents of the file, maybe you have to extract certain very specific information. Alright, so maybe you can be familiar with JSON and CSV, both of them as a best practice. In case if JSON is not working for you, you still have one more file format that you are familiar with to extract some information based on the use case. Along with that, at a overview, you should also know the basics of the foreach meta argument and know that it accepts a map or a set of strings, and it creates instance for each item in that map or a set. So again, we have discussed about this in great detail in the practicals. Make sure that you are aware of this workflow. The next important pointer is related to for expression and count. So at a high level overview, let's say that you have a specific file that has been provided to you. Now based on the content of this file, you should know on how you can create multiple instances of a resource using both the for expression and using count. So there are multiple ways that you can use as well. Now again note that it is not necessary that exam will say that. First implement a solution using for. Then implement solution using count. Exam will be very straightforward and it will say that the data needs to be extracted and the resources must be created based on the data. Now you use for expression. For that you use count meta argument. For that it does not really matter as long as the solution is achieved. Now note that this is just a sample screenshot for reference for exams. It can happen that they might ask you to create a different resource type. For example, here we have EC2 instance exam might ask you to create different resource type based on the content of some files. So not only you should know on how you can decode the content like CSV decode, JSON decode and so on. But after the data is decoded, you should also know on how you can pass it as part of the for expression and for each matter argument. The next important part is that you should be familiar with S3, so you should be able to create S3 bucket. Create an S3 object with specific information. Then add an appropriate bucket policy and also know on how you can delete a S3 bucket which are both empty and non-empty. Now, one thing that I wanted to show you here is that whenever you have a bucket which has some objects, and when you try to delete the bucket directly, for example. In fact, let's take some other random bucket here. All right. So this is a bucket which has some objects over here. When you try to delete it here you see immediately it gives an error stating that this bucket is not empty. Now in a similar terms, when you create a S3 bucket through Terraform and that S3 bucket has some objects, and when you just try to do a Terraform destroy, you will get an error because this bucket is not empty. So from Terraform perspective, when you discuss about S3 bucket, you have one specific option of force underscore destroy. So by default it is false. So in case if a bucket has some object and you try to destroy it, you will get an error. However, if you say force underscore destroy is equal to two, then it will automatically also destroy the objects that are part of the bucket, and the bucket will also be removed. Along with that, you should also be familiar with the security group resource, so you should know on how you can create a security group. And along with the security group rules using the VPC security group ingress VPC security group egress. So this is something that is also important. Along with that you should also be familiar with the local values. Now generally when you discuss about for each for expression local values is something that you can use, it can make things simpler. Now, the last topic for today's video is associated with importing the resources. So if you have some resources that are already created in the AWS environment and you want to import it, you can make use of the Terraform import. Now Terraform import. Also, you should know both of the approaches first where you already have the resource block that is available and you can directly reference to this using the import block. Second is you do not have this resource block available. You want to automatically generate the code also. So in such case you have to make use of the generate config out flag to generate the configuration. And this flag will be available as part of the Terraform plan. So this is one part that again is quite important. The next important point to note is that you should know on how to import various resource types associated with a specific provider. For example, based on the resource type that you use, the value that you add as part of the ID will change. For example, for EC2 instance, you have to specify the EC2 instance ID and not the EC2 instance name. Similarly, for IAM policy, you don't really specify just the policy name, you have to specify the entire policy Arn. So sometimes this leads to confusion on how do you find exactly that for a specific resource type? What is the exact value that you need to add as part of the ID? So let's also go ahead and quickly explore this. In short, basically you have to look into the resource type documentation which will have this detail. Let's explore this now. When you explore the AWS provider, documentation will take few examples. First example will take off security group AWS security Group here. Let's go ahead and open this. We'll take this first example. Second example will take associated with IAM policy. So you have AWS IAM policy over here. Now when you look into the security group, in this provider specific resource type documentation, you have to go at the last. And in the last there is a section of import which basically shows you on how you can import. So this is basically the resource type. And from here you can easily identify like this is the security group ID and not the security group name. Similarly when you discuss about AWS IAM policy, again you have to go at last. And this time you see in the ID you have to specify the entire Arn and not just the name associated with the policy. So based on this you can quickly identify. So sometimes in the use case you have to import certain resources. All you have to do just go to the documentation, copy this and modify the ID part accordingly. And this will save you a lot of time. The next very important part is that you should know on how to deal with conflicting arguments, specifically when you are running the Terraform import with generate config out. This type of error is quite common. For example, you see conflicting configuration arguments. This is very common for wide variety of resource types, and when you get this error, you should know on how you can resolve this as part of the generated code. So in fact, let's also go ahead and look into it from demo perspective so that you can get a gist. Now for today's demo I have a simple EC2 instance called as Test Server. And let's say that you want to import it. This server has been created manually and you want to import it in Terraform. So what you might do, you will add the import block, you will add two and you will add ID only two will say AWS underscore instance dot test. And in the ID will have to add the instance ID. So this specific instance id I'll copy and I'll add it here I'll save this. Now the next part is the import command. So for the import command you can look into the generating configuration page. You already have a sample command you can directly copy now from the CLI. When you go ahead and try to run the Terraform plan with generate config out, it is trying to import the EC2 instance. At this stage. You see it says planning failed. Why? There are two errors associated with conflicting configuration arguments over here, so you need to resolve it now. Note that even if the errors are generated, it is not an issue. The code is automatically created for you. So now if you see the code is created and basically you have to read the error to understand what the issue might be. So you have IPv6 address count. It is conflicting with one more which is IPv6 addresses. So you can just copy one of them. You can just paste it here. So this specific part IPv6 address count is conflicting with IPv6 addresses. Now, both of them does not seem to have some significant value. So just for simplicity, you can comment out one of them. You can comment out both of them. For example, let's just comment out one of them. Alright, I'll save this. We'll clear the screen. Now you can do a terraform apply. Just verify what exactly has been happening here. It says one to import. That seems fine. You can just do a yes. And now import is completed. And you'll also see that the state file has been created for you. All right. Now again note that depending upon the resource type that you are importing, it is a little different based on what arguments are getting conflicted. Sometimes you see that. In fact, let me show you for some of the resources you will see that the name and name underscore prefix arguments are conflicting. So in such cases you can just comment out, say name, prefix, whatever argument value you find to be more explicit and more in tune with the actual resource. Keep that and the other conflicting argument. You can just comment it out. Alright, this is one part that you should note. Great. So just for reference, I have also added a screenshot associated with what kind of solution you can achieve in the screenshot. Again, we have commented out both the IPv6 addresses and the address count, since it does not really have a importance as part of the resources concerned. But again, note that this part is something that you should not do for all of the resource type. For example, name and name prefix is something that we were discussing where you should only comment out one and not both. If you try to do both, it will unnecessarily modify the resource which you do not really want. Great. So that's the part one of the important pointers for exams. And with this we will conclude today's video.