Hi everyone, and welcome to the part two of the important pointers for the Terraform Professional Certification Exam. This specific video will more be focused towards the MCQ based questions that you can expect in exams. Now, since we are focusing towards MCQ questions, one of the important domains that you need to understand is related to the HCP Terraform. Now, we already have discussed about HCP Terraform in quite detail in a practical manner, so all of the important details associated with the HCP Terraform is something that you have to keep a note. One among them is the organization. As we know, organization are a shared space, so you can have multiple projects, multiple workspaces in an organization, and multiple teams can collaborate together here. The second one is the workspace. Each workspace can be associated with a specific git repository. It can have its own set of workspace variable. It can have its own set of configuration code that you want it to run. So this is also something that needs to be understood. The next is the HCP Terraform project, as we already know that this specific feature allows you to organize workspaces into multiple groups, and you can assign the permissions accordingly. The next important pointer is related to sentinel policy and policy sets. You should know on how both of these are integrated. So first what you do you go ahead and you create policy. Policy must be added as part of the policy set. And once you have the policy set it can be enforced globally or on a specific project and workspaces. Note that when we discuss about policy set, they are not directly attached at a team level. The next important point is related to the variable sets in HCP Terraform. So again, when you have a variable set that is being created, you can apply it globally, or you can even apply it to a specific project and workspaces based on the requirement. So this is very useful when you have some sort of central variable that you want to add to multiple set of workspaces. Along with that, you should also know on how you can overwrite a variable that is part of the variable set. Now note that in such case, when a variable set also applies to a specific workspace, if you want to overwrite it, it can be done by adding a workspace specific variable with the same key. For example, here you have a variable set and one of the variable set. Here is db underscore write underscore capacity which is ten. Now let's say that you do not really want this specific value here. How you can overwrite it. You can overwrite it by adding a workspace variable with the same key of DB underscore write underscore capacity with a newer value. So in this case the variable set will be overwritten and the workspace variable will take the higher precedence here. The next point to note is associated with the vault provider in Terraform. At this stage we already know that the volt provider. It allows us to read from right to and configure the HashiCorp vault. Now, one very important point to note is that in case if you are using the volt provider and fetching some secrets, these secrets will not be encrypted in the Terraform state file. It will remain in the plaintext and this is expected. You do not have the vault encryption of secrets available directly in the state file of Terraform. Along with that, you should also keep a note on how you can save a plant to a file. So this specific workflow, for example Terraform plan hyphen out EC two dot plan. So it will save your plan to a file called as EC two dot plan. And whenever you do a apply, you can directly reference to the plan file. For example Terraform apply followed by whatever name it may be. So in the screenshot the name of the file is infra dot plan. However, in case you have saved it to EC two dot plan, you have to just replace it with EC2 or planner. The next important pointer is related to the TF outputs. Now again, this data source is used to retrieve the state output for a given workspace. Now when you discuss about normal Terraform, we generally make use of the Terraform remote state data source. However, when we discuss about the HCP Terraform, you can make use of the TF outputs here. The next important pointer is the run triggers. What it does. It allows runs to queue automatically in your workspace on successful apply of runs in any of the source workspace. For example, you have this workspace which is a source. So if any application has been done on this source workspace automatically, it will trigger your destination workspace over here. This again is very useful specifically in wide variety of use cases where some of the value that is being created through this specific workspace is referenced to the destination workspace. Along with that, you should also know the basics of run task and at which stage you can configure them. For example, pre-plan, post plan, pre apply and post apply. Along with that, you should also understand the benefit that the check blocks provide and what would happen if you do not make use of check block. One very important part over here is that if check block fails, it will not really stop the terraform operation. It will continue. However, if you do not add a check block and you directly reference to a data source of HTTP, and if this fails, your Terraform will also fail. So this is the reason why it is important that you add these data sources under the check block. If you do not want the terraform to stop, in case if the data source does not return an appropriate response. Along with that, you should also be aware about some of the important CLI options. For example, input is equal to false. Applying plan from a file, no color and so on. Now again, this is something that you do not really need to memorize since the exam also has a lab environment. In case if you forgot some of this option, that is fine. You can go to lab. You can run the Terraform plan hyphen h or terraform init hyphen h. Look into the exact option and then you can answer the MCQ based question. All right. So this is something which proves to be useful. And the next part is some of the miscellaneous pointers. Sometimes what happens is that exam might give you a basic troubleshooting related scenario related to HCP, Terraform, which you need to solve. For example, let's take a sample scenario which states that your workspace is not being triggered whenever you add a new commit to a git repository. Now question that comes is what might be the issue associated with it. So let's quickly understand this. Now when we discuss about HCP Terraform, let's take one of the workspaces here. Now again, this workspace is not really connected. So when I go to settings, when we look into the version control. Now whenever you explore the version control here, you will see that there is a specific option related to the VCs triggers. And here the trigger type is branch based. And within here you can specify the default branch. And you also have the tag based. So depending upon the VCs trigger type, whenever a new commit happens the hkp terraform will automatically pull it. Now let's say that you have specified one branch here and you are committing it to a second branch. Then it will not really work. The VCs trigger will not really pull the changes. So these basic settings are something that also you should be aware of specifically when it comes to troubleshooting the Hkp Terraform projects. Great. So that's a very high level overview about the important pointer part two. And with this we will conclude today's video.