Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now at this stage we already have Checkov installed in our Linux system. And in today's video at a very high level overview. From a practical point of view, we are going to understand on how we can scan for our Terraform files using Checkov and some of the important options around that area. Now currently I am logged in to the server. Now the first thing that you need is a TF file. Now note that even if a server does not have Terraform installed, that is completely fine because Checkov can directly also scan the TF files and give you the recommendations and warnings accordingly. So at this stage, let's do one thing for today's practical. I have a very simple file of ec2.tf. Again, you will find it as part of our GitHub page. You can go ahead and copy this file and within the server you can just create a new file called as ec2.tf. And you can add it over here. All right. Once this is done you can go ahead and run Checkov with hyphen f option. Hyphen f allows you to specify a file. And here you are saying that go ahead and scan a file called as EC2 wtf? Once then you can press enter. Let the scanning happens and it will give you nice results here. So at this stage you see it has given us few results. One of the important result here is related to the secret scan. So it is detecting that there are some secrets related to access key and also the secret key that is part of this code which you can also find it. You see you have access and secret key that are part of the code, which is not at all recommended. And this is a very bad security practice. Apart from that you see there are various other results like ensure that the EC2 is EBS optimized or you will see ensure that the detailed monitoring is enabled. So although these results are not specific to security, even if you do not have detail monitoring enabled or EBS not optimized, it is not going to affect the EC2 instance from security point of view. But this is more to do with the best practices associated with launching of instance in a production environment. Now, one more thing that you will see is that you also have a link to a specific guide. And this is very important. For example, let's go a bit down. So you have a URL link to a guide which gives you more detailed information about this check. So let's go ahead and open this up. Now in the browser I'll go ahead and I'll add it. So this is the check which got failed. So the check off ID is CVV secret two. The same thing you will be able to find here you see CVV secret two. Now generally each check that happens also has its associated severity. So here you see the severity is high. So based on the severity you will be able to quickly identify whether this needs to be prioritized or not. Now you see you have a great description related to what this check is all about. And also there is a fix which gives you the appropriate step by step practical fix that you can do to overcome this specific issue. So overall this proves to be very important here. Along with that, from the website itself, you can go ahead and quickly search. For example you are using AWS. You see there are so many checks that are available you can take up any check. For example, let's take this. So associated with this check you see there is a check of ID there is a severity. This has a severity of medium. You have a description. And also there is a fix that is part of the documentation. Personally I really find this documentation to be very informative. They have built it in a very good way, primarily because of this section of fix. Now this is one part. Apart from that, there are also some flexibilities that are available here. So generally if you do a check of with hyphen help option, you will see all of the flags that you can use as part of this command. Now at this stage let's go a bit up. At this stage we had used the file flag. However, let's say that you have a folder with ten TF files. So in such case you can also make use of the directory option, which will scan all of the TF files for you and things can become much more simpler. So overall, you see there are so many options that you can make use of, and this provides a wide variety of flexibility for organizations to do things based on their requirements. Apart from that, you also have an option. In fact, let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and run this specific command once again. Now at this stage, you see that there are so many checks that are appearing over here. So sometimes organizations would say that, hey, I do not really want the check off to go ahead and scan for everything. I don't want my EBS to be optimized. I won't want the detail monitoring to be enabled. I only want Checkov to go ahead and do this secret scan. This is the most important thing that I want to ensure. So if you want to do that, then there is also an option to do that. So I'll say check off. You can specify the file. And this time you can say check followed by the sea cave. Secret. You see, this has a number of two. This has a number of six. So you can also use a wild card where I'll say star. All right, so all the key secret related checks will be verified against this code. I'll do an enter. And this time the result is much more better. You are only seeing two checks that have been verified related to access key and secret key. So again this is very important for many of the organization to make sure that only certain aspect of the code is checked. Apart from that, let's clear the screen. One more thing that you have to ensure. Let's go ahead and scan the code here. So we have learned on how we can go ahead and check for a specific kind of checks that are available. Now let's assume that we want everything except 1 or 2. For example I do not want. Let's go a bit down. I do not want this check to be happening. I do not want my EBS storage to be optimized. So what you can do, you can copy this. Check. Clear the screen. I'll say check off file EC 2.tf followed by skip check option. And you can specify the check ID here. This time all the checks will happen except the one that we were discussing related to the EBS optimized storage volumes. All right. So I hope at a high level overview you understood how we can operate. Check off at a basics. Now again this tool is very granular depending upon the requirements. And you can go ahead and you can read the documentation to see what are the flexibilities. What are the other options. For example, you can create custom policies for your organizations and so on. So all of these things are available. You can go ahead and try this out in your test environment. However, since this is a certification specific course, we'll be focusing more towards the Terraform and the granular details related to the tools and options. External tools will keep it to the basics to understand the overall workflow that can help us get started. So with this, we'll conclude today's video.