Hi everyone, and welcome to the interesting part of the course where we are going to go ahead and discuss about Terraform challenges. Now, this series of videos will allow us to practice all of the learnings that we have gained as part of this course and to test ourselves if we are ready, not only for the real world environment, but also from the exam perspective. So with this, let's get started. Now, whenever you learn any new technology or a tool, you will see that there is always that small gap between learning and implementation of that tool in real world environments. And this is as expected. And this is also one of the reasons why generally, after you learn a tool or a technology, it is recommended that you implement some kind of project based on that tool in order to bridge the gap between learning and looking into how that tool is implemented in a real world based setup. So this bridging of gap is very important. So when you start to implement projects based on your environment. It really gives you a great learning and it also allows you to bridge the gap. And in a similar way, when we discuss about Terraform, the challenges part as part of this course will allow you to bridge the gap between learning and having a good amount of hands on that is required not only to be a Terraform professional, but to clear the exams. So again at a high level. Overview. The Terraform challenges are a series of scenarios that you need to solve based on the requirements that are specified as part of the scenario. Now, each scenario will test you against different topics as part of Terraform, so this will make sure that you understand things in a great detail from a practical perspective. Now note that these are not some easy scenarios that you can complete within 15 20 minutes. The main aim of this scenario is to give you a feel and experience that you might get when you actually sit for the exam and solve the scenarios based on lab environment. So again the scenarios that you see in exams, they are not easy. And this is the reason why it is a four hour exam. It is supposed to be lengthy. So if you want to get a feel on how challenging it might be, this Terraform set of challenges will give you a good glimpse about it. Now discussing about the Terraform challenges and where you can find it, we have a dedicated repository associated with the Terraform challenges. The name of the repository is TF Pro Challenges, and again I'll be adding the link to this repo after this video. So you can clone this repository. And in this repository you have multiple set of challenges that will be presented to you. All right. So let's do one thing before we proceed further. I just wanted to show you on how exactly it looks like post, which will be discussing few things in detail. Now, as we are discussing, we have a repository called as TF Pro Hyphen Challenges. Again, the main aim of this repo is to get you hands on required before you sit for the exams. Now this repository has multiple sets of challenges at this moment, and each challenge has the appropriate task. So it is not that a challenge will say go ahead and implement a solution using Terraform. Generally, the challenges that are part of this repository and also the challenges that are part of exam are very systematic and detailed. Now let me quickly show you one of them. So let's say that this is challenge number one. Now this challenge is divided into multiple tasks. And each task has a dedicated description on what is the exact approach that you need to do as part of the overall implementation. So it is not something that will intentionally make things confusing. Everything is discussed in a very systematic way. Follow each and every pointer, implement the appropriate solution and you will be able to solve the challenge accordingly. Now again, we'll be discussing about each challenge in a separate video along with the solution. But I just wanted to give you a glimpse on how it might look like now whenever you solve the challenges from exam perspective, one of the important point to note is that when it comes to difficulty, it is not too difficult, but it is not too easy either. So I would say that it is an intermediate level difficulty. However, the primary issue that you will face is that you have to complete all of the challenges within the four hours. So it is very important that you practice sitting for four hours trying to solve scenarios with full concentration. So if you do not have concentration, say after two hours, then you will miss, say two challenges which will be essential to clear the exams. So it is very important that you start practicing. And again, the challenges that we have as part of this course. Also, they are at an intermediate level of difficulty, and you can use this as an opportunity to sit for long hours solving the scenarios with full concentration. Now, discussing about the approach that you should take while solving the challenges. And if you follow this, it will really make you much more prepared from the exam perspective. So our recommendation is that when you solve those challenges, do it in the same way that you might do in the actual exam. So let's say that you are actually sitting for the exam and you are presented with these challenges. Now how will you take it? First is you only have three documentation that are allowed in the exam, which are the official HashiCorp documentation, the AWS provider documentation, and the actual AWS documentation. So it is recommended that you do not google anything while problem solving. Even if it takes time, it is completely fine. Take two hours. Take three hours for one single challenge, completely fine, but try to solve it yourself without googling for any solution. So if you take time and try to solve each challenge by yourself, it will really help you in getting that hands on experience. Now, as we are discussing about the pointer number one which states only three documentation are allowed. So even if you look into the exam orientation guide, the link to the documentation are provided here. Again, I'll be adding it as part of our GitHub so that you can reference to it. So first one is the Terraform documentation. You have the AWS provider documentation and you have the actual AWS documentation. So this is the actual Terraform documentation. Now note that in this documentation you might get a link to Terraform tutorials. So tutorials are not allowed in the exams. The page the URL will automatically be blocked. So that is something that you have to keep in mind. Second is the AWS provider documentation. Now if you go to the documentation here, this is the actual documentation. And on the left you have all of the required services. And the third one is the actual AWS documentation. Now as we were discussing that it is very important that you also have a hands on on how you can go ahead and find the appropriate code from the documentation page. So if you follow this approach, you will also have a better understanding on where important code snippets are as part of the official documentation, which is very useful from the exam perspective here. Along with that, we are also going to have solution video associated with each challenge that we have as part of our GitHub repository for your reference. And one important thing that I wanted to share is that whenever you solve any challenge, aim here is to implement the solution fast and not follow the best practices specifically during exams. So you are not going to lose any points if you follow bad security practices. As long as you are able to implement a solution based on the requirement that is part of the task, you will get full marks there. And this is also going to be our approach as part of our solution video, where we will try and implement the solution as quick as possible to save decent amount of time. Great. So that's a very high level overview about the Terraform challenges. Let's go ahead and start with the interesting series.