Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video we were discussing at an overview about the intention of Terraform challenges. Now in today's video, we are going to look into how we can quickly clone the overall repository and get started with the challenge. Now again, the link to the Terraform challenges are already provided as part of the earlier lecture, so you can reference through that now at an overview. The URL that you will see will take you to this specific repository over here. What you need to do. You can go ahead and clone it. So you can just get the URL. Now within your workstation, you have to go ahead and clone it to a specific location. Which location you will clone it again, it depends upon you, whichever you feel comfortable with. Personally, I use the C drive as part of our clone operation, so in the C drive I'll open up the terminal. You have to run the git clone command followed by the link to the repository, which is this specific one. Make sure that you have the git related Software installed in your system. Great. So in my case, the cloning has been completed. Now, if you look into the C drive, we should have a folder of TF Pro hyphen challenges. You have multiple set of challenges. Let's say you start with challenge one. You can go to the challenge one folder. Open this with Visual Studio Code. And now you can go ahead and look into the Readme and start solving the overall challenge. So that's a high level overview. Now one more thing that you can do again, in case if you do not really use the cloning method is you can download the zip file. This will also work. So this will go ahead and download all of the challenges in zip. So this is the main zip file. If I open this again you have all of the challenges. And you can copy this to the appropriate folder. All right. So this is a quick overview on how you can go ahead and get started with the challenge. In the upcoming video we will explore the challenge number one and its appropriate solution. So with this we will conclude today's video.