Hi everyone, and welcome to the overview video of challenge one. In today's video, we are going to discuss at a high level overview about what exactly this challenge is going to test you against, and also information related to how much time it generally takes. Now, similar to our other challenges. Also, this scenario will test you against a wide range of essential skill sets that you need to know as a Terraform professional. Whenever you work in Terraform for real world organization. Now again, from exam perspective, also the hands on part will really help you. So for example, let's say that as a Terraform professional, you are working in a real world organization. Now, there are various important challenges that you might face. For example, you might face broken terraform code, which does not work. You might have to implement Terraform import functionality. Resource targeting state management output values is very common Splat expression for expression. So these are some of the important features and areas that you really have to be good at being a Terraform professional. And in this specific challenge you will be tested against all of this, so you will have to implement these at a various task level to go ahead and solve the overall scenario. Now again, note that this specific challenge is a little lengthy. Now when we discuss about average minimum time that it might take to solve this challenge, it is around one hour and 30 minutes. Now again there are exceptions. In case if you are a Terraform professional, then you might be able to solve this challenge in a much more quicker time. But this is the average. Now in case if you are going through this challenge, first time you are reading it in detail, you are trying to understand the scenario. You are trying to understand the code as part of this challenge. So in such cases, it can take around 2 to 3 hours to complete. So again, in case if it is taking you longer time to complete, that is completely normal. Go ahead and look into it. Try to solve it by yourself and see what are the possible solutions that you can come up with. Again, we are going to have a detailed solution video, so you can also go through that in case if you get stuck with any of the task. So with this we will conclude today's video.