Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with the challenge. Number one, as we know that this challenge is divided into multiple tasks. And the challenge description also states that you will be required to fix the code, import resource output values, and also manage the state effectively. So what we are going to do, we are going to go ahead and explore each task and apply the appropriate solution accordingly. So the task number one states that you need to fix the broken code. So let's read what exactly it means. The provided Terraform code in the folder has syntax errors, resource misconfiguration, or other issues. Your goal is to fix these issues and deploy the resources successfully. Now if you'll explore the challenge number one, let's open this up with Visual Studio Code. Now within here you have three important files specifically from the perspective of Terraform, Main.tf, tf, dot, JSON, and Variables.tf. So in these files only there might be some resource misconfiguration that needs to be fixed. Along with that, generally when I solve some challenges, the first thing that I'd like to do is to understand what exactly the resources are defined as part of the TFX file. For example, if you look over here within your first, it is trying to create IAM user. So total of three IAM users are being created. Then you have the IAM user policy. So whatever user will be created will also be associated with a policy with the name of EC2. Describe policy and this policy will have a permission of EC2 describe star. So the user when they log in to AWS console, they might be able to look into the EC2 instances that are running. All right so these are the two important resource types. Now if you go a bit down you also have resource type associated with S3. So here you have S3 bucket that is being created and you have a object. So once the bucket gets created the bucket will have one specific file with a name that is defined in the key over here. Now again this is variable. So you'll have to just reference through there. But again it's simple. Some amount of S3 buckets are created not one. It would be multiple because you have a for each expression that is being used. So first you have the IAM user, then you have the S3 bucket related service. And third important service is the security group. Here you see you have a security group and security group ingress rule. So not too many services are part of this main.tf file. So overall it is manageable. So first task here is to go ahead and fix the issues that are part of the code and deploy the resources successfully. So let's go ahead and try it out. Now in order to understand what are the issues associated with code, we'll go ahead and we'll first run the Terraform init command. Now as soon as you run the init command you see there are certain errors over here. In fact, both the errors are pointing to one line only in the Variables.tf, which states that the keyword strings is not a valid type specification. So first let's look into the variables.tf file in the line seven. Now in the variables.tf file, if you look into the line that the error is pointing to, it is pointing to this specific variable, which is basically S3 bucket. The type is list followed by strings. Now generally when you explore the Terraform documentation, let's go ahead and search for input variables just for a better understanding. You will also have an example reference code. Here you see the type is list of string. And if you see in the code you also have an extra s. So this is strings. And this is the reason why the error clearly states that the keyword strings is not a valid type specification. So now what you need to do. You just have to change it to string, and that should ideally solve the issue. Once done, you can run the terraform init once again and this time it seems to have completed. Great. Once terraform init has been completed, now you can run the terraform plan, and in the plan it is asking us to provide the value associated with the variable of environment. Now you can just copy this and in the main.tf just look where exactly this environment based variable is used. So if I do a ctrl f I search for environment. There is only one place where this variable is used which is in the default tags. So this is the variable. Now if you look into the variables.tf you have a variable of environment. And now if you look into the TF dot JSON. In fact you also have the value associated with the environment variable that has been specified here. So somehow even if the value is specified in the tf dot JSON, Terraform is not really picking that value. Now you have to troubleshoot on why that might be the case. Now the answer here is that when we discuss about the tf vars file by default, if the name of the file is terraform.tf vars or terraform.tf vars dot JSON, terraform will automatically pick it up. However, if you have a custom name, for example KP labs.tf vars or kp labs.tf dot JSON. In such case, you have to explicitly add it as part of the CLI command. So what you can do in order for Terraform to automatically load it, you can just rename the file to terraform.tf vars dot JSON. Let's do a control c. And this time it is not really asking us for the value of the environment variable. This is good progress. Now there are three more errors that are appearing over here. Let's start with one among them. Let's start with this reference to undeclared input variable. It is in the line number 56 of main.tf. So you can also check the main.tf line number 56. And in fact Visual Studio is also pointing it out. So the name of the security group is var.sg underscore name. Now if you look into the tf dot JSON, SC underscore name has a value KP labs hyphen SC. But still it is giving an error. Why? Because this variable is not really defined anywhere. So what you need to do you have to define this variable. Let's define it in the variables.tf. And that should ideally solve it. You see it looks good. Let's verify we'll do the Terraform plan. And yes now you only have two errors. So let's look into the next error which states invalid for each argument. This is associated with line 45. Now if you explore line number 45 the error is appearing somewhere over here. So let's look into what exactly this code is doing. So it is creating an S3 bucket and not one S3 bucket. It is creating multiple S3 buckets since for each is used and for each is referencing to a variable of S3 underscore buckets. Now if you look into the variable of S3 underscore bucket, this is defined. And also look into the tf was JSON. The value associated with S3 bucket seems to be defined here as well. Now if you look into the description of the error, it states that the given for each argument value is unsuitable. The for each argument must be a map or a set of strings, and you have provided a value of type list of strings. So from the description itself we can identify where exactly the issue lies, since for each is being used, you cannot use a list, you have to use a set, or you have to use a map. So simply you can just define a type of set of string and that should solve the issue. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan once again. And this time you have one more error that you need to solve. This error is associated with line 28. Now if you explore line 28, let's see where the error is coming from. The error is coming from here. So let's see what exactly it is doing. So first this is the user policy that has been created. And this user policy is being attached to this resource which is this. Now the problem here is that a count is used. And here you have not really specified the appropriate index key for example when this resource gets created. Ultimately in the state file, the resource address will look something similar to this, like AWS, IAM user ELB followed by zero, which is the count index. Then you have one and then you have two. So in the state file it will look something similar to this. Now when you associate a policy to the appropriate user here you see the index is not really specified. So it does not really match any of the user that are actually created in the state file. And this is the reason why you are getting an error over here. And in fact, at this stage it is also showing you like what is the possible solution that you can use which is count dot index. And in fact this is a easier solution. So basically what you can do the count is three in the IAM user policy. Also you can say count equals to three. And now within the user you can say count dot index. All right. So now what will happen is it is referencing to the attribute of AWS IAM user zero followed by the name. Now also verify if the IAM user has this specific attribute. Let's in fact check this. I'll open this now in the AWS provider documentation I'll search for aws IAM user. Let's search for this. I'll open this. Now the aws IAM user verify if it has the attribute of name and yes it has. So this seems to be good. So when you compute it again it would look something similar to this. In the first iteration this count dot index will be zero. So this part is something that needs to be matched. All right. Make sure that both of these are matching. And it looks like both of these are matching. And it looks to be good. So let's go ahead and remove the appropriate comment. We'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. And the earlier error seemed to have gone away. Now you have one more error which states invalid value for input variable. And the issue is terraform.tf fires dot JSON line two. So if you look into tf dot JSON, line number two has a variable with a key of environment and the value is production. So this looks good. So if you look into the description what it states the given value in this specific file is not suitable for var dot environment declared at Variables.tf. A number is required. So now what you can do is you can map it to the actual variables.tf to see what is the expected value. So now in the environment expected value here is written as number. But in the TF verse you have a string that has been provided, so now you can just change it to string. Let's save this. And that should ideally solve the issue. When you do a Terraform plan you see all of our error seems to have gone away. You have in total of 13 to create. So now let's go back to the challenge one task one what it says your goal is to fix the issues which are these and deploy the resources successfully. So from here we can identify that we have to deploy the resources. So I'll just do a Terraform apply with auto approve. And let's go ahead and deploy these resources. Great. So all of our 13 resources are being deployed. So this marks the successful solution of task number one. Now let's explore the task number two what it says. Use the output block in Terraform to display the following values in the CLI. List of bucket names. List of IAM user name ID of security, group ID of security group rules. And it is also showing you that the output value that will display the contents that are been added here should look something similar to this. So S3 bucket will have the list of S3 bucket, security group ID, security Group rule ID and the username. Now it is also stating that the values can be different. Now within here you have fancy mouse that has been added here. However, when you look into the main.tf file, you have a random pet resource that is being used. Now random pet will give you a different name when you are trying it out. And this is the reason why when you in fact look into the Terraform apply. In my case, the name is different and this is what it states that the values associated with this output can be different, but the format should look something similar to this. So let's go ahead and try this out. Now what you can do you can create a new file called as outputs.tf. Or you can add it in Main.tf. Also, it does not really matter however just to have a cleaner code I'll use output and within here let's specify a name. Now this name would be similar to the one that is being shown here s3 underscore bucket s0 s0 id usernames. So I'll say S3 underscore buckets. And within here you have to define the appropriate value. Similar to this. Let's go ahead and add few more blocks. First one is S3 bucket, second one is sg id. So I'll specify s3 underscore id. Then you have a rule ID. Then you have usernames. Great. Now within here some of the values are pretty straightforward. For example acid. If you look into the security group, you don't really have multiple security groups that are being used. So you can just reference to the resource address here. So here you can say AWS security Group dot example. And if you look here basically this is the ID of the security group. So in order to verify what you can do you can just look into the attribute associated with this resource type. So from the provider documentation you can search. Let's open this. Let's look into the attribute reference. How you can get the ID. And in the attribute you have the attribute of id which post the ID of the security group. So now within here I can say.id. All right. This is one way. One more way that you can use is you can directly look into the TF state file. For example, if you just search by AWS security group within here, you will have the attribute of ID. So this is also much more simpler in case if you do not really want to switch between your code and documentation. Second is the SG rule ID. So let's copy this. In fact, this time we'll search the documentation here. So within here the ID is also in the attribute of ID. So let's try this out I'll specify here.example.id. All right. So these two are resolved. The next two are not as straightforward as these two. Why. Because some form of iteration is required. Because you have multiple values that you want to output it in the output values. Now if you look into the tf state file Let's search for AWS underscore IAM underscore user. You have three user with the index key of zero. Index key of one and index key of two. So as we are discussing if you explore the resource address associated with this it would look something like this. AWS iam user dot elb followed by index key of zero, index key of one and index key of two. So what you can do is in the value, you can make use of splat expression so that all of these index key can be matched. You can try defining it for example aws IAM user dot ELB followed by the splat expression so that all of these can be matched. And then what is the output that you want? You want the name. So you can also verify you want the names. So here you can say dot Name. All right, so let's do one thing before we go ahead and try the S3 bucket. Let's implement this and see if we are getting the required output. I'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. Now at this stage we are getting required output of Szeged SC rule ID and user names. Great. So this part is fixed. Now let's also look into the S3 bucket. So now what you can try here is that within here you might try something like AWS S3 bucket dot example. Try and add a splat expression followed by the name of the bucket. Something similar to this. Let's see if this works. I'll clear the screen. I'll do a terraform plan. So within here we are getting an error and it states this object does not have an attribute named bucket. So generally one point that you have to keep a note is that since username had a count, we directly made use of splat expression. Now when we discuss about S3 bucket it is making use of foreach. So now just for simplicity what you can do within your you can have a for expression. So for example for name in AWS S3 bucket dot example. So so it will fetch all of these values. Now what do you want in the output you want. Name dot. So name dot bucket. All right. So you can specify name dot bucket. Let's save this. Now when you clear the screen when you do a Terraform plan let's see if this solves the issue. And yes, it has done so. You have username a0, id id and s3 bucket. All right. So I hope with this at a high level overview you also understood about the step two. Now again depending upon the type of data and depending upon whether count is used or for each is used, the way in which you can extract the data will also change. Generally, when count and count index are involved, splat expressions can be used whenever you have foreach. You can make use of the for expression that will make things much more simpler. So now we have completed with the step two. Now again, if you see the tasks in this specific scenario are in total of eight. So it is going to take little amount of time. So we are going to conclude this video. Otherwise it will become too long. From the next video we are going to start with the task number three and its subsequent tasks. So with this we will conclude today's video.