Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video number two associated with challenge one. So in the earlier solution we had implemented the task one and task two. Now it is time for task number three. So what does it state. It states that you have to save the output values to file as per the below table. So whatever output values that were generated in the previous step, you have to store it in a specific text file. For example, all the S3 bucket names must be s3 dot txt iam user name must be iam user dot txt and security group id and the VPC ingress rule id must be stored in the same file of SC combined dot txt. Now there are multiple ways that you can use to achieve this. Either you can copy and paste things manually, or you can also use the Terraform output command. So when you run this command at this stage it is showing warning no output found. So now if you look into the TF state file, you see in the outputs there are no outputs. So this basically means that this specific output that we got as part of the CLI, although we managed to get it but we did not run the Terraform apply. And this is the reason why this did not get saved as part of the state file. So just to show you, if I run the Terraform plan here. We are getting this in the CLI. However, since we have not run the terraform apply, they are not committed as part of the state file. So now they are committed to the state file. And if you would verify you see in the output you have these as the output values. So now when you run the Terraform output command you will get the details associated with it. So now what you can do you can do terraform output, say S3 underscore buckets. It will only give you the list of S3 buckets. You can go ahead and save it to a file that is defined over here, in this case s3 dot txt. So let's do that in a similar way. The second one is iam hyphen users dot txt. So let's change the name of the file and also the output. So the output name for IAM user is user underscore names. The next is the security group id should be stored in this file. So let's go ahead and do that. So security group ID is here. S3 underscore ID. And the last one is the VPC ingress rule ID. Also it must be stored in this file. Now let's also add it here. Now again, if you make use of this, it will overwrite whatever content that was earlier present. So if you want to append it for example, if you look into SC combined dot txt this is the id. Now you do not want to replace this, you want to append it in a new line. So you have to use this specific format for appending. I'll save this. And now you can just verify s3 dot txt iam user txt sg combined seems to have only one value. In fact. Let's close this. We'll reopen it and this time you have two values that are present. All right so this completes the task number three. Now comes the interesting task here which states that remove the AWS underscore security underscore group and VPC security group ingress rule resource type related code from your Terraform configuration. So let's do that. So from Main.tf we'll go ahead and we'll remove both of them. All right I'll save this. This completes the first part of task number four. The next part here is delete the terraform.tf state file and its backup Terraform.tf state dot backup if available. So in my case, you have the Terraform.tf state and Terraform.tf state dot backup. So this task is telling you to go ahead and delete both of these files. So let's go ahead and delete it. So this completes the task number four. So now comes the interesting task which is import all the resources. So it states import all AWS resources created in step number one into a new Terraform state file. Now at this stage, since all of the resources that we have created the state file is no longer present. Now, when you do a Terraform plan, it is giving an error, since we also have an output value associated with the security group. Now, just for simplicity, the output values associated with the security group, you can just comment this out. I'll save this. And now when you do a Terraform plan, since the state file is no longer present, it will try to create all of the resources new, which we do not really want. All right. So what it states that import all of the resources that you have created in step number one. So here we had done Terraform apply. We created some resources. We have to import all of them into a Terraform state file. And it is also saying ensure existing Terraform configuration matches the actual resource in AWS and that no actual resources are deleted. So you have to. Ensure that there are no delete of any of the resources created in step one. Great. So for this, let's in fact close all of these files to remove the clutter. So let's do one thing. First we have to go ahead and import the resource step by step. Now which resource you will import. Again it depends. You can start with any of them. So first we need the import block. So from the documentation when I search for import let's look into the overview. So this is the overall format. You have a two you have a ID. So let's create a new file of import.tf I'll copy this and I'll add it over here. Now how many import blocks you will typically require. You can look into the. TXT files that have been created. You have 123. Then you have four, five, six, seven. So at an overview you have seven import blocks that will be required. So you have 1234567. All right. This is one part. Now since the configuration is already present for most of the resources, you can fill in the two part first. Then you can look into the ID ether. So first let's look into AWS IAM user dot elb. Now we already know that since count is being used you have to reference by the index. Just for simplicity I will reference by index. So since three users are created first one will be with the index of zero. Second user will be created with index of one and so on. So let's fill this. You have index of one. You have index of two. This is associated with the IAM user. Again you have to verify from the provider documentation on what value is expected from the ID. So you can check that I'll copy this. Now from the documentation you can just copy this. Let's search for IAM user. And if you look into the import block in the ID you have to add a name. So this looks simple. So the name that we have saved in the text file we'll add it as part of the ID. All right. So import of IAM user is completed. Now let's go to the next resource, which is the IAM user policy. Now again you have a count that is used here. And this count is being referenced as part of the count dot index object. Now let's copy this and add it here. In fact let's copy the other part which is elb dot r0. Let's copy this three times. Since count is equal to three now similar to the IAM user. Again you have to specify the count index. You have zero. You have one, you have two. Now in the ID part you have to verify what exactly the value needs to be presented. So you can check the documentation. I'll copy this and let's search for IAM user policy. Now for this you can look into the import block. Now within here this is the format user underscore name followed by user underscore policy underscore name. Now the user name is something that we have already added here. And the policy name is static EC2 describe policy. So let's do one thing. Generally what I like to do is I like to segregate things. So I can just add a comment stating IAM policy resource import. So it becomes easier because there are so many import blocks. Now in the id, first you have to add the user name. Since this is an index of zero, it will be associated with the user with index of zero, followed by the name of policy, which is easy to describe. Policy. All right. Let's copy this for other blocks. Also we'll replace the index of the user name accordingly. All right. So this seems to be done. Now comes the next part, which is associated with the S3 bucket. Now within here let's look into the Main.tf. AWS underscore S3 bucket. You have a for each that is being used. And in fact, since you have two buckets you can add one more import block. Now in the two let's go ahead and use this AWS S3 bucket dot example. And note that since for each is being used, you do not have the index key. Something similar to this. Instead the keys will be from the set values. So this would be the key. So what you can do the first key would be KP labs hyphen one. And the second one would be KP labs hyphen two. In fact, in case if this is is confusing. The easier way that you can do is just check what is the resources that are being created. For example, if you look over here, you have the user policy that has been created and the user policy has been referenced by the index key of zero, one and two. And the S3 bucket is being referenced by KP labs one, KP labs two. So this is also something that you can use. You can directly copy from here and you can add it over here. All right. Now once this is done the next important part is the ID. So let's see what exactly you have to add as part of ID. So I'll copy this in the documentation. Let's search for S3 bucket. Let's open this. Let's look into the import blocks. In the ID you have to specify the bucket name. Now what you can do you can open up the S3 dot txt you have the bucket name. Let's add it here. Great. So at this stage the import block seems to be completed. Let's save this. Now we'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. Let's see what it is trying to create. Additionally. Now at this stage it is stating eight to import eight to add three to change, five to destroy. Now this is quite risky because so many operations are happening now. Generally in such cases you can just look into what exactly it is trying to add. So in fact, it is trying to replace almost all of the objects that we have created here. You see, it is trying to modify almost all of them and what exactly it is trying to modify. It is trying to modify the name part you see for IAM user it is changing the name. Let's go a bit down even for S3 bucket. It is trying to change the bucket name which is creating force replacement over here. So now you have to identify why is it trying to change the name. So if you look into the actual code for IAM user, the name part is combination of three things. You have the random part ID, you have the organization name, you have the count index. Now the organization name and count index will remain to be the same. However, this specific part of random ID will change because the state file has been removed. So if you look into the apply output, you see it is creating a new random pet resource here with a new name. So for example, let's consider this name here. Let's go back. So for the IAM user, this was the name that it had created with the index key of zero. Now the issue here is that this specific part was random pet.this.id. Now, since random pet is not part of the resource file, what is happening is it is generating a new random pet name. Let's just call it as temp pet. All right, so let's say that this is the name that random pet resource is creating. So this part will be replaced by this followed by KP labs hyphen zero. Now the issue with this is that if random pet name changes, then essentially all of this resource will be recreated, which we do not really want. So somehow we have to identify on how we can use the same random pet name that was part of the earlier state file. Now, for this specific purpose, let's see if it supports import. So I'll copy this. now. Generally, when you search for random pet in the AWS documentation, it is no longer present. Now again, if you have such kind of a scenario where the object is not directly part of the AWS documentation, then the lab scenario will also give you the link to this specific document for your reference. So just for simplicity, I'll go to provider and I'll search for Random Pet. Let's explore this provider. Now one thing that you will see is that you do not really have a import functionality that seems to be supported here. So what you need to do, since you are not able to import the earlier name associated with a random pet, you have to implement a solution where this specific part will be replaced by this. Now again, one thing that you can do is you can hard code it directly at a resource level. This is also something that can be done in case if you are not able to find the other solution, the better solution, because sometimes it can happen that there will be too many dependencies associated with the resource of random pet. So if you go ahead and try changing name associated with all of the resources unnecessarily, it will take time. So in such case, what you can do. In fact, let's also explore what you can do. You can do a terraform apply now. At this stage you see we don't really have a state file. So what you can do you can do a terraform apply with the target of random pet dot this. All right. So first let's commit this as part of the state file. I'll just do a yes. Now if you look into the state file this is how the state file really looks like. Now the ID of the random pet that got generated is this. So just for simplicity what you can do, you can just copy this. Now again we are looking for the first solution. Here you can just copy whatever ID was generated as part of the previous state file. Just replace it over here. Alright. Make sure that there are no other values and there is only one ID value here. You can save this. Once done, this issue associated with multiple resources getting recreated would be fixed. So now when you do a Terraform plan. This time you see the number of resources getting destroyed or recreated are zero. You have two to add. You have eight to import. So eight to import is very good. Two to add is something that let's see what it is trying to add. So here it is trying to add the S3 object resource. Now we do not want the S3 object resource to be recreated. So what you can do, you can just also go ahead and add the import block accordingly. Let's copy this. And for the S3 object you can just copy this. We'll go back to the AWS provider documentation. Let's go ahead and search for this AWS S3 object. Now if you go a bit down into the import block just look into the format. The format is S3 object followed by the ID which is the path. So there are two approaches here import using id import using s3 url syntax. So this one is something that we'll follow. I'll copy this. And in the import block what I'll do I'll just replace it here. All right. So you have this part remains to be the same. This part is the bucket name. So the bucket name in our case let's copy this for object one, we will replace the bucket name. And bucket number two will also replace. Now then you have the path. Now what you can do you can just copy this bucket. Now from the AWS console again in exam you will have this access. You can go to S3. I'll add the bucket name. So this is the bucket. Let's open this and this file baz dot txt. So this specific file baz dot txt is not under some folder. For example you can create a folder. And inside the folder you can place a file. So since folder is no longer present you no longer have to add this. You can directly specify by name for example baz dot txt in both the cases. All right always verify. Now for the key. You don't really have a for each you just have var dot s3 underscore baz base underscore object. So if you look into the TF was JSON, the S3 base object, the name is base dot txt. And this is what we'll specify I'll save this. Now let's go ahead and we'll do a Terraform plan. We are getting an error on 54 and 49. Let's look into where exactly we have made a mistake. All right. So this is where we made a mistake. In fact this should be S3 object because we are importing the object. So we'll just copy this. Dot example. Let's copy this in both the places. I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan. And again we are getting an error on the same lines. So let's verify. So this is the path. All right, so this is where we made a mistake. So we have to replace this with object. So our addressing was not correct I'll save this. Let's try again. Great. So now this time you see you have ten to import, zero to add, zero to change, zero to destroy. Great. So this marks the significant solution that we have achieved. Now one more part that is pending is that it states import all of the resources that were created in step number one. Now in step number one, we had also created the resource which are the security group and the VPC ingress rule. So this is also something that we need to import. So let's also do that. So I'll say security group. Now before we do that I wanted to ensure let's ensure that at least we import all of the other resources to the state file. So let's do that first. So I'll say Terraform apply with auto approve. All right. So at least these resources are added. Great. Now once this is done you can just run the Terraform state list to ensure that this is populated. And in fact if you look into the state file also the state file is populated here. Now we'll go with the last step which is for the security group. So again total of two import blocks will be required. First you can just copy the ID of the security group. Just add it here. And second the VPC security group ingress rule. Just copy it over here. Now let's identify the resource type. Exactly. So for this we can search the documentation I'll say AWS underscore security. You can just search from the browser also AWS security Group. So you have the security group here and you have the security group ingress rule. So first let's copy this. And within here you can just specify any name here. Let's just call it as example. Now at this stage note that the security group related resource is not created. So we have to create the resource. Now there are two approaches that you can use. Either you create the resource block or you let Terraform generate the resource block for you. We'll let terraform generate the resource block for us so that it can save us time. All right. So this is one. The second is the VPC security ingress rule. So this is the one that we are looking for. I'll copy this. Let's add it here. We'll just call it as example and I'll save this. Now, at this stage when you do a terraform plan, Terraform will see that there are two import blocks that are additionally added. And it is giving error why it is giving error because the configuration for import target does not exist. So we are telling Terraform that this security group ID must be mapped to this. But there is no resource with this address and that's the reason for error. So now what we can tell Terraform again it is suggesting here itself is to generate the configuration file for us. So this is the simplest one in case let's say it does not show. Then you can also search in the documentation. So in the import if you look into generate documentation this is the exact command. So in fact let's go ahead and copy this I'll add it here. And just for simplicity I'll just call it as Sgtf. All right. So it is saying two to import it is importing a security group and the security group ingress rule. Once this is done you can just do a Terraform apply with auto approve so that it gets committed to our state file. And yes it has been done. And now just for simplicity to verify if you have completed things correctly the output values, you can just uncomment it. Let's save. This will clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan once again. And the output values that are now being generated. You can compare it with the output values that you had stored earlier. So these are the changes to the output. In fact let's also commit it because in the previous step of the scenario we had committed the output values to the state file. So again for this it is very important to do that. So here you can copy the usernames and in the usernames dot txt. In fact IAM users dot txt. You can add over here and just verify if the values are same. They are same. I'll remove this the SC combined dot txt. Let's copy this. Let's see if the values are same and the values seems to be same. So things look good. I'll save this. Let's go back to the task. So now what task says ensure that existing Terraform configuration matches the actual resource in AWS and that no actual resources are deleted. So with this we have completed the task number five successfully. Great. So again this has been a little lengthy video. We will complete with the task number five. In the next video we will explore the six, seven and eight. So with this we will conclude today's video.