Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number one. So this is going to be part number three. Now in the earlier videos we have completed all of the step from 1 to 5. Now we are in step number six. We have to complete six, seven and eight. So let's explore step number six here which states that create a new object in S3 bucket using AWS S3 object. This is fine. The name of object must be new dot txt and the content of the object must be success. So overall this seems to be an easy solution. So now what you can do for the S3 object over here. This is the same resource type that it is asking us to implement. So just for simplicity I'll say step number seven. Let's just verify. In fact it is step number six I'll add step number six. And I'll just copy the earlier resource itself. Let's name it new. And the only thing that we will change is the key. So the name of the file must be new dot txt. So let's try it out. So I'll say new dot txt. And also the content of the object must be success. So you have to identify on how you can add the content here. So you can just explore this specific object. Now let's search for this. Now within here if we go a bit up you can check if there are some readymade examples here. If there are no examples, then you can look into the argument here. Now in the argument you have option of content underscore base64 and it is stating that it conflicts with source and content. So in fact let's search for content here. So you have a content argument what it states literal string value to use as the object content which will be uploaded. So this seems good. So what I'll say I'll add content. And within here you have to specify success. All right. So this seems to be completed once. Then you can go ahead and run the Terraform plan. So basically the new dot txt should be created in both the S3 bucket. So there should be two resources as expected. Just verify two resources are being created with the content of success. Once you are verified you can just do a quick Terraform apply auto approve. Great. Once this is done, you can also manually verify in the S3 bucket whether the file is created. So in the S3 bucket let's just refresh. You see new dot txt is created. So this seems to have completed the step number six. Now the step number seven. What it voted states remove object from state, so remove the S3 object code created in step one named base dot. TXT from the Terraform code and state file. Ensure this object is not deleted from AWS. So what you need to do this specific object. You have to remove both from the state file and from the configuration file, but you do not have to delete it from the S3 bucket. So in order to do that, first let's go ahead and remove it from the configuration file. Let's save this. Now at this stage when you do a Terraform plan since the configuration has been removed. In fact we are getting error related to import. That is fine. Now what you can do you can just since we have completed our import, you can just rename this file to dot back so it does not come into picture. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. At this stage it is showing two to destroy. Now what we want. We do not want Terraform to destroy it. So in order to do that, what you need to do in the state file this specific entries that you see this entries. If they are removed from the state file, then terraform no longer will track it. And if it no longer tracks it, it will not remove it as well. Now there are multiple ways to achieve this. For example, generally you have a removed block also. So at this stage it is not able to find. Now in case if you look into the resource block you have the option of removed blocks. So remove block can be used. So again it states that by default after you remove the resource block, Terraform will plan to destroy any real infrastructure object that was managed. And in fact this is what is happening now. This again is one of the newer approaches. In the older approaches we use to run the terraform state rm cli command. This in fact also works. So the overall syntax is terraform state rm followed by the address that you need to specify. So what you can do. I'll say terraform state RM and you can just specify the address s3 object dot object. I'll press enter and it has removed both of these instances from the state file. So just to verify, if you just do a Terraform state list, ensure that object dot object is no longer present. You only have object dot new. All right. Now again the state RM command. You have to run very carefully. It does not ask for confirmation. It directly removes the data from the state file. All right. So run it with utmost care. Or you can use the remove block at a later stage. So this marks the step number seven to be completed. Now, at this stage when you do terraform plan, let's just verify if there are no resources to be created, updated or terminated. It says your infrastructure matches configuration, which is good. And since it states that the previous object must not be deleted, otherwise you will lose marks. So you can also manually verify refresh. The previous object is not deleted at all. The last part is to destroy all of the resources that have been created as part of this challenge. So let's also go ahead and do that. So you can say Terraform destroy with auto approve. Let's try run this command. So at this stage we got an error stating that the bucket you tried to delete is not empty. Now again the description by itself is quite good enough. So this bucket that we see is not empty, so it is not able to delete the bucket. Now you can just search for AWS S3 bucket resource. There are again multiple ways to take care of this. You can manually delete it. But again this is something that should be avoided. So again it is taking us to data source. We don't want the data source. We want the S3 bucket resource. Now within here let's search for delete. And this is the argument that comes into picture what it states. By default it is false. And it is a boolean that indicates all objects should be deleted from the bucket when bucket is destroyed. So the bucket can be destroyed without error. So this is what we want. So now what you can do in the AWS S3 bucket. You can say force underscore destroy equals to true I'll save this Now, at this stage, note that when you try to do terraform destroy again, will it work or will it not work? Let's see. At this stage it is not working. Why? It is not working? Because although we have added the argument, but we have not done the terraform apply. So it is important for us to do Terraform apply now at this stage when you do a terraform, apply what it will do. It will recreate the other resources also that it might have previously destroyed. So you see it is trying to add ten resource. So we don't really want that. So in such case what you can do you can run terraform apply with the target of AWS S3 bucket example. Let's press enter. This time it is saying two to change just verify what it is. Changing force destroy is true for KP labs. One KP labs two. This looks good. I'll press y. Once this is done. Now you can go ahead and run the Terraform destroy with auto approve command. Hopefully this time all of the resources will be removed. Births. Great. So our destroy is completed. And you can in fact also look into our state file. So if you look into our state file, you see it is empty. Great. So this marks the completion of the challenge. Number one, I hope this you liked the challenge and the amount of hands on that this challenge expects. I am sure that this has given you a decent amount of learning, and also good amount of hands on experience related to a wide variety of Terraform features like the Terraform import, Terraform state, and also the understanding on how you might fix the broken code that is giving you errors. So with this will conclude today's video.