Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number two. Now if you'll explore the challenge, in total there are seven tasks over here. So let's go ahead and quickly get started. Now the task number one is pretty straightforward. What it states. Deploy all the resources by running the Terraform. Apply with auto approve. Now within the TF Pro Challenges git repository that we had cloned. Let's open up that challenge number two. And within here let's open this with Visual Studio Code. And if you explore the Main.tf over here, let's see on what exactly the code is doing in the first place. So here you see first you have a EC2 instance that is getting created. You have some IAM policy document, you have a IAM role, you have a IAM instance profile. You have a IAM user, IAM user policy, the S3 bucket and the security group. Let's go ahead and open this up with terminal. Now as the task One says, go ahead and deploy the code. Before we do that first thing, we have to run the Terraform init. Once this is done, you can go ahead and run the Terraform apply with auto approve. So let's quickly wait for a moment here. All right. So most of the resources are created except EC2 instance. Generally EC2 instance takes a little amount of time. So in total there were 16 resources that were created as part of the Terraform apply. So our task one is completed. Let's look into the task number two, which states that replace the hardcoded value with data source. It states that use the AWS Ami data source to replace the hard coded Ami id from AWS instance resource type and fetch the value dynamically. Now, if you explore the code associated with the EC2 instance, you will notice that here the Ami is hardcoded. coded. So this is something that is not required as part of the task. And what the task is suggesting is to make use of a data source so that this value can be fetched dynamically. Now it has also given us the name of data source. So this can be easier. Now from the AWS provider documentation, you can search for the data source name of AWS underscore Ami. In fact, let's also do it from the browser so it becomes easier. So AWS Army you have resources and you have data sources. So we are more interested in data sources. You have some example usage. We'll copy this and what we'll do. We'll go ahead and we'll add it over here. Now again there are multiple filters section. This is something that we do not really require. I'll just remove this. We'll keep one filter for the time being. Now before we go ahead and add some data as part of the regex, change the owners. First let's understand what exactly this army is all about. So I'll copy this Army ID and from our EC2 console, let's go to Amis. We'll search by this Army ID now. Currently it states no matching Amis found in owned by me. This is very important part to remember. So by default you have to check what exactly is the selection. If it is owned by me, generally you will not get anything. So here you'll click on Public images. So now one army ID have appeared. Now if you click on this Army ID you have a lot of information. For example one important information is the owner account ID. So we can copy this. And in the owners you can just replace it over here. The second one is the Army name. So this can also prove to be useful. So now what you can do in the name regex. You can just add this army name. All right. And other details like executable users Most recent. We'll just avoid it. We don't really want most recent because we have to replace this specific Army ID dynamically. Now if you look into the task, it clearly states that the EC2 instance should not be recreated, and it must use the same Ami ID as the step number one. So this is the reason why these information are not really required. We will also remove the filters. We'll see if we are able to fetch the ami ID which matches this. So temporarily what you can do, you can just create a output. And in the value you can just use the ami ID here. Just look into what is the attribute associated with this data source which prints the ID. So if you look into the attributes here, you have to see which attribute is printing out the actual ami id. So in the attribute here you have the image underscore ID. So what you can do you can just specify. Image underscore ID. Let's save this. And temporarily I'll just comment this. And I'll remove the previous comment so that we do not really get an error. Now from the terminal we'll go ahead and we'll do the Terraform plan. Let's see what the output value presents to us. All right. So this is the output value. Let's copy this and we can compare it here. So just compare 378D8C. So this seems to be same. So what we are going to do. We'll comment out the earlier code. And within here we'll use the same data source reference here. All right. And I'll save this. The output values are not really required now. And in fact we'll just remove the hard coded Army ID also so that our code looks clean. All right let's save this. Now once you have done that, Just run the Terraform plan operation in case if there are any EMI ID mismatches, then the resource of instance will be recreated. So you can instantly find out. So at this stage, since there are no changes, that means that our data source that we had written is correct. So this marks the completion of task number two. Now comes the important task which states split to multiple modules. So what it is stating split move the existing code into multiple child modules as described in the below table. Each child module must be inside the modules folder. So let's do one thing first. We'll go ahead and we'll create the modules folder here. And inside this what it is stating it is giving us the child module name. So these are the child module name. And it is also showing you what are the resources that needs to be moved inside the child module here. So you see it says move the existing code that is present to the child module here. So first let's do one thing. First. Let's go ahead and create child module. You have EC2, SG, S3, IAM and random. So there are five major child modules. So let's go ahead and try it out. So first we'll create EC2. Then we'll create SG. Then we'll create S3. Then we'll create IAM. And next we'll create random. All right so in total of five folders associated with child module. Now the next part here is to move the existing code into child module here. And the table also specifies what code needs to be moved. For example in the EC2 child module you have to move the AWS instance resource type and the AWS Ami. So let's do that. So in total you have AWS, Ami, and AWS instance. I'll remove this from the Main.tf. And inside the EC2 module I'll create a file called aws ec2.tf. And I'll move the resource here I'll save this. Second is the security group module within here again there are two resource AWS security Group and VPC security Group ingress rules. So I'll close the EC2 dot WTF and if you will see these two resources needs to be moved from here to S3 and within S3, I'll create a new file as.tf, and I'll move the resource block here and I'll save this. The next is S3. Within here you have S3 bucket and S3 object resource type that needs to be moved. So you have these two resource types. I'll cut it. And in the S3, I'll create a file called as s3.tf and let's move the contents here I'll save this. So now how many contents are present? IAM and random pet. So now all aws iam star must be moved to child module of IAM. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and create a new file in IAM module and all the IAM star. So let's do one thing. Let's copy everything here. We'll move it to IAM. I'll save this. And now we only have one. And it states random pet needs to go to random child module. So we'll remove this. And in the random we'll create a new file called as random.tf. And we'll add the content here. So at this stage we have completed the first step in task number three. Now let's switch to the next part, which states that do not modify the main resource configuration code that were moved inside the child modules. So what it is saying that all of these code that we had written inside the child module here, so these are the code that we have moved from Main.tf to the appropriate child module. It says do not modify the main configuration code over here. So we'll leave it as it is. Next is configure appropriate module sources in the root module to load all of the child modules. So at this stage in the main.tf since the code is no longer present. Now when you try to do a Terraform plan, it will go ahead and it will show you a plan to remove all of the resources that were previously created. All right. So as expected it is showing 16 to destroy which we do not really want. So now the task says is that go ahead and load all of the child module using module sources in the root module. Now from the Terraform documentation, in case if you do not really know the format that is fine. You can search for module. So you have module sources. And one of the source here is the local path. Local path is for us. So what I am going to do I'll specify the local path here and how many child modules we have. Let's see 12345. So in total we need to have five such blocks. So before we do that first let's go ahead and reference to one of the modules. So the path is modules EC2. Let's just call it as EC2. Similarly we'll copy it four more times. So we have 1234 and five. So first is the EC2, second is IAM. Third is random. Fourth is S3 and fifth is S3. I'll save this. So this marks our next step as well. Now what it is stating it is stating add the appropriate variables inside child module. Now at this stage, once you have called the appropriate module source from the CLI, let's go ahead and do a terraform init. And now let's do a Terraform plan just to verify. You see it is giving multiple sets of errors. Why it is giving multiple set of errors. Let's look into it. For example in SG if we see you have var.sg underscore name. Now the value associated with this was present in the root module path in the file of terraform.tf vars dot JSON. And this is what the next step is, which states add the appropriate variables in the child module. Now what you can do in the C module, there is one specific variable that is not yet defined. Now what you can do. You can just say variables.tf and you can just define it. So I will say variable SC underscore name will not really add the value to this inside the child module. I'll close it now. Second is S3. Inside S3 also you see you have var dot s3 underscore buckets and var dot s3 underscore base underscore object. So let's also create a file of variables.tf. We'll just define it. So the first is S3 buckets. So I'll say variable S3 buckets. In fact, you don't really have to do this. Basically, if you see you have a variables.tf file that is already present, you can just copy from here. So for S3 bucket I'll just copy both of these. So I'll remove it from here and I'll add it over here. All right I'll save this. Now for IAM. Let's see. You have var.org hyphen name. And let's see if there are any other also. And that's about it. So from the variables.tf I'll copy this. And in IAM you can add Variables.tf. You can add this variable here. Let's save this. And within here we had also defined as underscore name. So we are not going to keep this as part of Variables.tf. All right. So once we have added the appropriate variables. Now note that this is not variable values. This is variable. Once we have defined the appropriate variable run the terraform init command to reinitialize. Ensure there are no errors. Now we have already run the terraform init, but just for the sake of workflow, I'll just do a terraform init and we'll do a Terraform plan. And now we have to ensure that there are no errors over here. So at this stage we are getting error in the module of IAM on line 22. Argument or name is required, but no definition was found. So if you look into Imtf line 22. In fact, let's close all of this. We'll keep it simple. Let's verify if it is the same file. All right. It is not imtf. It is Main.tf. So in the main.tf line 22. So this part it is stating org name is required but no definition was found. So basically in the IAM we have defined a variable of org hyphen name. And same is also part of the code block here. But the problem is value is not really defined. And this is the reason why it is giving us an error. Now you can define the value directly inside this module block. So you can say org hyphen name equals to. You can fetch the data from the tf vars JSON. It is KP labs. So I will just say KP labs. All right once. Then let's also remove this from TF dot JSON. This is one part. Now similar you have to do for other modules as well. For example in SG Variables.tf has SG underscore name. So you have to specify sg underscore name equals to get the value from the tf vars First file and add it over here. Alright, I'll also remove it from tf var file. Now is s3 for S3. There are two. One is S3 bucket, second is S3 base object. So let's define that. So S3 buckets and S3 base objects. So buckets you can get it from here. Let's cut this. We'll add here. And base object will remove from here. We'll add it here. All right. So this is also something that we'll remove and keep our TF vars file clean. I'll save this. And I'll save this also. Now let's clear the screen. Let's go ahead and do terraform plan. Oops. So at this stage we are getting multiple set of errors. So this is fine because in the task it says run terraform init command to reinitialize ensure there are no errors. So we'll just do a terraform init. There are no errors over here. That is good. We'll clear the screen and proceed with the next step. So the next step states temporarily add hardcoded values. In fact, this step is directly related to the Terraform plan operation that we did. So let's look into it. For example let's look into this part. So in EC2 wtf. So if you open up the EC2 WTF within here in the IAM instance profile, you are referencing to the address of this resource aws IAM instance profile dot test, underscore profile dot name. Now when all of these code were part of Main.tf, this made sense. But now since we have splitted the code across multiple modules, this reference will not work now. So for example, this reference was part of IAM now. So if you see this is the exact resource that is being referenced as part of EC2 wtf? Now, since this reference addresses are not working, this is the reason why we are getting these errors. So now lets look into the task number four, which states that in places where string interpolation was used to fetch random pet value. Comment out the existing argument and manually hardcode the random pet with actual value from the state file. And you also have example where. If this is the interpolation here, replace it with the hardcoded value from the state file. So let's do one thing first. Let's go ahead and complete this part. So in fact you can get this from error. Also you see random pet is used in two places here. One is in Imtf line 26 and s3.tf line four. So let's complete this part Imtf. Now in the Imtf line 26 you see you have random underscore pet dot discarded. Now again, since we know that random pet code was moved to a different child module itself, this will not work and it will give an error. So the task is clearly stating. Comment out the existing argument and manually hard code the random pet with the actual value. So now we'll comment out this part. Let's copy it and let's add it here. Now this specific part we have to replace with the hard coded value. So what you can do you can look into the state file, fetch the value associated with the random pet resource. Let's see where exactly it has been defined. So this random pet resource has the value of this. So I'll copy this and we'll replace this with the hard coded value. All right I'll save this. This is in Imtfe. Now you also had random pet used in s3.tf. So this also is something that you can first comment out. I'll just add the value here. Now in the bucket we'll replace this with the hard coded value. And I'll save this. So the part one of step four is completed. Now it is also stating that for EC2 instance manually hard code the final value of instance profile that is part of the state file and comment out the previous argument. Now this is also directly related to the error. Here you see associated with the IAM instance profile as we are discussing, since this address no longer exists as part of the EC2 module, this is the main reason for error. So now what you can do the ec2.tf this part. This reference part will go ahead and we'll comment out the previous one and this one we have to hard code the actual name. So to get the actual name, let's copy this. You can check the state file and the actual name here is test underscore profile. So you can manually hard code the test underscore profile here. And that should do. So this marks the part two of step four completed. The next part here it states that ensure there are no errors when you run Terraform plan. So now let's try this. I'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. So at this stage there are no errors. You have simple 16 to add and 16 to destroy. So this marks the completion of task number four. So task number five again is quite interesting. So let's do one thing. This video has become quite long. So we will conclude this video. And in the next video onwards we will look into task five, task six and task seven.