Hi everyone, and welcome to the second part of the solution video associated with challenge number two. In the previous solution video, we completed task one two. Task four. Today we are going to complete five, six and seven. Now at this stage we had replaced all of the hard coded values. And our Terraform plan is saying 16 to add 16 to destroy. So the task number five will address that which states that update the resource address in a state file to reflect the refactoring of monolithic configuration into multiple child module. And after completing the previous step, which is this one, run the Terraform plan and ensure there are no changes. It is also showing us what is the expected output, which is zero to add, zero to change, zero to destroy. And this is very important generally when you refactor the existing configuration and move to modules, then the next step is to ensure that the Terraform state file is updated to reflect that whatever resources that are created in a cloud provider, the resources need not be modified, but the address associated with those resources from the state file needs to move from the Main.tf to the appropriate child module. So this resource address over here. This needs to change to reflect the module. Now in order to do that we have to make use of moved block. Now let's see if moved blocks appear here. It does. So let's copy this. So this is very simple. You have to specify the old address. And then you have to specify the new address. So let's copy this now in total how many resources Terraform is creating it is creating 16. So when you add the appropriate move block, Terraform will realize that all of the 16 resources that it is trying to create, it is already present, but in a child module. So in total you need around 16 move blocks to be defined. So just for simplicity, let's do one thing. We'll go ahead and create a new file called as moved.tf. Alright. And in total we'll define total of 16 move block. So let's copy this again. So 123456789 ten 1112 1314 1516. Alright we are keeping it very simple now in this move block you have a from and you have a two. Now the easiest way to add the two is to directly copy the resource address from here. Let's do that. So we have to do it 16 times. So in the two first we'll add this. Then the second. The third. Fourth. The fifth. The sixth. The seventh. Eighth. Ninth. 10th. 11th. 12th. 13th. 14th. And 15th. And you have the last one now, which is the 16th. You can add over here. So now comes the next part of adding the from address. So just for simplicity the from address you can take from the resources that are getting destroyed. Or there are multiple options. For example you can also do a Terraform state list. You have this from address. Now you have to do the appropriate matching. But one more easier way is that since we have just directly moved the appropriate object resource type from the Main.tf to the child module, the only thing that would change between from and to is this part. All right. So what you can do you can just copy this. You can add over here. So this was the old address. We moved the old address into module dot EC2. And this is the new address. All right. So this also can save you time. So let's do this for all of them. Just make sure that module dot name of module is not really copied. And then you can copy the other part of the address. All right, so we are done. Let's save this. So now if you look into the task, we have completed this part. Now comes the important step which states after completing this step, run the Terraform plan and ensure there are no changes. So time to check. Now let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. And as expected zero two at zero two change zero to destroy. And along with that it is also stating ensure there are no warning message related to value from undeclared variable. So generally what happens is let's say in the tf vars file I'm just showing an example. Let's say that you have a variable sg underscore name. All right let's save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. So in such cases you get a warning message stating value for undeclared variable. All right. So this is the reason why when we were getting the value and we were adding it as part of Main.tf, we had removed it. So let's just keep it the way it is. So now comes the step number six associated with dynamic value implementation. What it states. Remove temporary hardcoded values that were added in step number four and implement proper module outputs. So if you look into step number four we had manually hardcoded the value associated with the random pet name the instance profile, and so on. So now it is asking us to remove those hard coded values and implement proper module outputs. And within here there are some steps. What are the steps it states for EC2 module. It should be able to fetch the IAM instance profile from the IAM module. Similarly, the IAM and the S3 module must be able to fetch the random pit value from the random module over here. So in order to do that, because currently these are not directly connected. Now many a times the benefit here is the central state store. For example, if you are storing all of the state information in a central format associated with each module, then you can make use of the Terraform remote state and that can make life simple. Generally an organization, you will see that you have a central backend, and the Terraform remote state is being used to fetch information from multiple set of projects. Now, in this case, what you can do is what are the information that are hard coded is the first thing that you require. So one of the information hard coded was from the IAM module. And second information that was hard coded was from random module. So let's do one thing first from the IAM module. What we are going to do. The hard coded value that is being used in other modules will make it as an output. All right. So this is the value that was hard coded. What we are going to do. We'll add the output value in the child module. Let's just call it as instance profile. And within your value I'll just make a reference to this followed by name. All right. So whatever value the name argument will have the same value this child module will output. This is one part. Similarly in the random module also we'll do the same thing. We'll add the output value of random pet and the value would be random pet dot. This followed by the id attribute here and I'll save this. Now. At this stage, even though you have added the output values, when you clear the screen and when you run the Terraform plan. The output values from the child module will not be presented to you over here. All right. So all that you are seeing is zero to add, zero to change, zero to destroy. The output values are not presented at all. So what you need to do once you are outputting it as part of the child module, you have to do same at the root module level also. For example, in the root module, if you specify output of say instance profile. And in the value you say module dot iam dot instance underscore profile. So this is the output name in the child module. So in the child module if you see the output name that we had added this name is what you are referencing over here. Now once you do that now when you do a Terraform plan. You see we are getting the instance profile here. So now what we want is this specific value needs to be presented inside this module block. So just for simplicity what you can do you can create a locals. And within here you can say instance profile equals to you can specify the address. Then what is the second part. Random pet equals to module dot random followed by the output value here which is random pet. All right I'll remove the output block. So this local block let's just move it at the top so that it's easier to reference. Now once this is done you can go to the IAM child module again. And the hardcoded part because here it states remove the temporary hardcoded values that were added and implement proper module outputs. So this hard coded part will just comment this and will remove the comment associated with the previous code that was present. I'll save this in a similar way for the S3 module also. This hard coded part will comment out will remove the earlier comment. We'll save this and the last one is the EC2 module. We'll comment the hard coded. We'll remove the previous comment over here and we'll save this. Now at this stage let's see what are the errors that we will get. In fact we will get errors. So at this stage you have three errors specifically related to the hard coding that we had removed. Now what you can do. In fact let's close this. What you can do this part basically the instance profile. Here we are directly giving the address of the AWS IAM instance profile based resource type, which we know does not really exist here. So instead of this, what you can do, you can make this as a variable. So for example, in fact let's not just modify this, let's just change it to variable. I'll say var dot instance underscore profile. All right. And you will also have to add this variable. You can just create a variables.tf here and variable of instance underscore profile. All right. We'll not give the value. We'll just declare this variable. So let's do that for other code as well. So for IAM instead of this because this address does not exist we'll copy this. And now this part will change to say var dot random underscore pet. And same thing. You have to declare the random pet. All right. Similarly for the S3 module also. We will use the same code. VAR dot random bit. And let's declare it here. All right. So once this is done since this is a variable you have to also provide the value associated with that variable. Now since the value is not there in the child module you can provide it from the root module also. So now what you can do in the Main.tf as part of the root module for the EC2. What was the name of variable instance underscore profile. So you have to add the same name here. And the value would be from locals. So you can say local dot instance underscore profile. All right. Similarly for IAM. Also let's verify for IAM variable name was random pet. And the value of this random pet can come from local. So local dot random underscore pet. And the same thing we'll add it for module of S3 also. All right so I hope with this you understood the workflow where all of the values associated with this local is coming from module output. And we are simply referencing this for the variable value here once. Then I'll save this. Now when you do a Terraform plan as expected zero to add. Zero to change, zero to destroy. All right. So we have completed this. Where now there are no hard coded values that are added as part of any of the child modules over here. Now the step number seven here is to go ahead and destroy the infrastructure. Now, before we do that, one thing that I wanted to share, and this is very important from the perspective of refactoring module, is that this is just the plan. This has not been updated in the state file. So for example if I say Terraform state list you see it does not show any module over here. However, here it is stating that this specific resource type has moved inside the module and same for others. So it is very important that once you verify that there are no major changes, no destruction, go ahead and run the Terraform, apply auto approve so that it gets committed as part of the state file. Otherwise everything that you have done will be of no use. Rthy. Once this is done, you can always verify the state file with Terraform state list. And now you should see everything is inside the module and this is the expected output. So once you have done that, the last step for this lab is to go ahead and do a Terraform destroy with auto approve. Again here most of the resources will be destroyed quite quickly except the EC2 instance. It takes a little amount of time. So let's wait for the EC2 instance to be terminated so that we can successfully mark this challenge as completed. All right. So it took around one minute and all of our resources are now destroyed. So this marks the successful completion of challenge number two. I hope you liked this challenge as well. Again, module refactoring is a very interesting domain by itself, and the learnings that we implemented as part of today's video acts as a base for major module refactoring that you might do for the organizations. So that's an overview and with this will conclude today's video.