Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to explore about saving Terraform plan to a file. Now one thing that we have to keep a note of is that Terraform allows us to save a plant to a file. Now, before we look into the advantages that this specific approach provides, let's look into the overall workflow to achieve this use case where if you run a command of Terraform plan with the output of EC2 dot plan. So this EC2 dot plan can be any file name that you can choose. So now what Terraform will do. Terraform will go ahead and it will save the plan to this specific file name. This is the first part. Now what will you do? Associated with this plan is the second question. And this is where our apply comes into picture. Where you can run the Terraform apply by referencing the plan file. So if you look into the command terraform apply followed by whatever file where the plan was stored. In this case it is infra dot plan. So now what terraform apply will do. It will read the file. it will read the contents of this plan and the apply will be made accordingly. Now, this specific approach provides good amount of benefits specifically for production environments where the organization who is implementing Terraform. They can be ensured that the consistency will remain to be the same that was shown as part of the plan, even if the resource code changes. So this is a very big advantage. Let's go ahead and look into what exactly this means practically. Now for today's practical, I have a file called as local underscore file or TF, which contains the resource of local file. So all this does is it creates a file called as terraform dot txt with the content of hello world a very simple resource type here. Now, before we proceed further, let me quickly show you this to avoid any confusion. First I'll do a terraform init. I'll clear the screen. I'll do a terraform plan. So what it is showing it is showing that a file of terraform dot txt will be created with the content of Hello World here. I'll clear the screen. I'll do a terraform. Apply with a confirmation of. Yes. And you see, a local file is created. Now, if you open up the Visual Studio, you see one more file is created called as Terraform dot txt with the contents of Hello world. And if you want to look into it from the Windows Explorer perspective, you see a new file of Terraform dot. TXT must be created. If you open this up you see the contents of Hello world. All right, so with this base set let's go ahead and do a Terraform destroy so that we are back to the original configuration here. Now the question that comes is at this stage we went with the normal workflow that we have been doing for other practicals which is Terraform init Terraform plan. Terraform apply. What benefit does this extra step provides. Because after terraform init first we have to save a plan to a file. Then we have to do a terraform, apply from the saved plan file, and so on. So before we look into the exact benefits that it offers, let's go ahead and try this out. Now I'll say Terraform plan with the out of infra dot plan. All right. I'll go ahead and I'll run the command. Now, as soon as you run the command, it will show you the planned output. Along with that, it will also show you that the plan is saved to a file called as infra dot plan. Now, if you see in the Visual Studio Code, you have a file called as infra dot plan. Now at this stage we have already saved our plan to this file. Now before we go ahead and apply using the planned file, let's go ahead and modify our resource here. So instead of terraform dot txt I'll say terraform two dot txt. And instead of hello world I'll say new content. I'll save this. Now if we clear the screen and if we do a terraform apply with infra dot plan. Now in case if this does not work you can do something like this infra dot plan. All right, whichever way works. Now, if you run this command, the question that comes is what is the file name that will be created? Will it be terraform dot txt or will it be the new Terraform two dot txt because this configuration is saved. In fact, let me show you this is saved and the file content will be Hello world or it will be new content. So let's explore this now. As soon as we run this command you see a file is created. Now if we go back you see a file called as Terraform dot. TXT is created with the content of Hello world. So even though our resource block was changed, but still since we did a Terraform apply with the infra dot plan, whatever content was there as part of this block when the plan was saved. Based on those content, the infrastructure will be created. This is very important part to remember and this provides great benefits now generally in production environments when so many teams are working and you want to be very sure that the infrastructure that will be created will be exact as that of the plan that you had run. It can be a day or two back. So in such case, Terraform apply with the plan file is the best approach to ensure the consistency based on the plan file. Otherwise, what will happen is if you have not saved the plan file and if you do a terraform apply, and if there are some things that are changed as part of your resource, then you will get an unexpected non consistent result. All right. And this is the main benefit of saving the plan to a file and applying from the plan file directly. Now before we conclude this video let's go ahead and look into some of the important pointers related to the plan file here. The first important pointer is that the saved plan file will be a binary file. And you have to use the Terraform show command to read the contents of this file in detail in case if you'd like. You can also get the JSON output, which is much more easier to read and other third party applications can also be integrated accordingly to read the contents of the file and do some actions. For example, if you try to read this file from Visual Studio, you will not be able to read it. Why? Because it states that a file here is either a binary or it uses some unsupported text encoding. So this is not a text file that you can read directly. And this is the reason why in case if you want, you can use the Terraform show command to read the contents in detail. So let's explore that. So I will say terraform show infra dot plan. So immediately you see this is the exact contents that you would have seen when the Terraform plan was run the first time. Where you see terraform dot txt is created and Hello world is created. And this specific modification did not come into effect. All right. This is one part to keep a note of. Now if you want to read things in detail you can do a Terraform show with JSON followed by infra dot plan. Now at this stage you will get the JSON output related to what exactly will be created. Now again, the formatting is not done properly in case if you have JQ you can make use of that. However, let me quickly show you I'll copy this. Now generally in Google you have multiple JSON formatters. You can open them up and within here if you paste the contents, you see this is how the output really looks like. So this becomes much more easier to read. And in case if you have some other applications that wants to read the plan file in detail, and maybe some application based rules needs to be applied, then in such case, JSON output is very important. Similarly, let's try one more website. I'll go ahead and I'll proceed it. You see this is the JSON output. Now generally if you are working in any organization, in production or even in dev environment, you do not want your JSON planned output to be uploaded to any website because you do not really know if they are storing something or not. Sometimes the plan output can also contain sensitive values, so as a best practice it is recommended to not go ahead and upload it here. In case if you have JQ you can go ahead and use that. Let me in fact also show you this. I do not have this in windows, but in a Linux server. I'll show you how exactly it looks like. JQ is also available in Mac OS and windows, but you will have to download it here now. Currently I am connected to the Linux server. I already have Terraform available and this Linux server. Again, it is based on ubuntu but it does not really matter. You will typically see JQ that is available. So this is command line JSON processor. Now let me do one thing. Let's go ahead and quickly create this file of local file.tf. And let's copy the contents here I'll save this I'll do a Terraform plan and let's say infra dot plan. Oops. In fact we forgot the out flag. Before we do that let's go ahead and also do a terraform init here. Let's do a terraform plan with the out of infra dot plan. Alright, if you do an LHS you see that infra dot plan is available. If you try to go ahead and do a cat on infra dot plan, it will not really work well. Alright, so on a control D we got logged out. In fact, let me just quickly connect to the server again. Great. So now in fact if you have done the cat on infra dot plan you can just do a control C to come out. I had pressed control D because of that. We got logged out anyways. Now you can do a terraform show the infra dot plan and as expected we are getting similar output to that of our workstation. The next step is you can do a Terraform show with the flag of Jason on infra dot plan. This time again you will have a similar output to what we saw in the windows terminal. However, in case if you would like, you can send this to JQ. So now as soon as you have done that, you see you are able to see the contents in JSON in the local terminal itself without uploading it to a third party website. And this is what is generally recommended. Great. Now before we conclude this video, let's go ahead and quickly look into the use cases of saving plan to a file. Now many a times what happens is organizations require documented proof of plan changes before implementation. This is very important for some organizations, specifically enterprises. Change management is a very important area here. So these changes based on what you have submitted, the documented proof of plan changes will be reviewed and will be approved. So when you make those changes, you have to be 100% sure that they are exactly same as that of the one that you have documented for review and approval. So in such case, running the apply from the saved plan ensures the consistent desired state. So that's a very high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.