Hi everyone and welcome to the overview video of the challenge number three. So let's go ahead and explore what this challenge is all about. Now the main aim of this challenge is to test your understanding about the AWS provider and how it integrates with the Terraform code. Now, generally, whenever you are writing Terraform code, it can happen that one resource block might require a specific configuration of a provider. Second, resource might require a different configuration of the same provider. So all of that is very important when you are writing the production level Terraform code. Now, since we are making use of AWS, we are going to test the understanding based on the AWS provider. Now, when we discuss about the understanding, it will test you against wide range of things. So when you explore the documentation related to AWS provider, you see that the documentation by itself is quite lengthy. There are a lot of configuration options now, depending upon the environment that you are using to deploy the Terraform code, it can be some form of automation scripts. It can be a CI, CD pipeline. It can be a manual operator based approach that you are using based on that, the way in which you configure various things, like credentials for a provider will also change. For example, in a CI, CD, pipeline based environment, the access key, the secret key, the region would be in form of environment variables. Now you can also hardcode it as part of the code, but again it's not recommended. Generally you will see that they are added as part of environment variables. Similarly, if you have a different kind of setup, then the credentials can be stored in a different location as part of the file system as well. So in this challenge, we are primarily discussing about some of the challenges that you might face in production environment with respect to the AWS provider, and you need to go ahead and solve it. Again, an interesting challenge and it will give you decent amount of learnings. So that's an overview about the challenge. Number three as usual. First go ahead and try to implement the solution associated with this challenge. In case if you face any issue you can go through the solution video where we discuss things in detail.