Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number three. Similar to what we were discussing in the overview video, this challenge is primarily focused towards your understanding of the AWS provider and how it integrates with the Terraform code. Now, as part of this challenge, the first thing that you have is a base task. What does the base task signify? It states that the following important resources related code is configured in the base folder. These are the resource code and the appropriate description associated with it and what you are supposed to do. You are supposed to run the terraform apply so that these resources are created, and it is stating that you must run this before proceeding with the task number one. Now if you will explore the challenge. Number three, this is the main challenge file. Along with that you also have the base folder that is available. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and open this with Visual Studio Code. And as part of this challenge, as we are discussing this is the main file of the challenge. Along with that, you also have the base folder. Inside the base folder you have a base dot ttf file which is creating certain resources in AWS. So the first aim here is to go ahead and create the resources before we proceed with task number one. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and open this folder with terminal. Now we'll quickly go to the base folder. We'll run the Terraform init command first. Once this is done we'll run the Terraform apply with auto approve. Great. So the apply is completed. And in the output you see there are three role arns that are being provided to you. One is EC2 IAM and read only. So the description associated with this is also provided as part of this table. There are other important resources that are created. One is the KP Labs Challenge three user and second one is the arrow hyphen user and the description is also provided. We'll be discussing about this at a later stage. So let's jump to the task number one. What does the task number one states? Split the below mentioned resources from challenge hyphen 3.tf and not the base folder into child module as described in the below table. Each child module must be inside the modules folder, so this seems easy. First, let's go ahead and quickly create a modules folder. And now the resources that are being mentioned here needs to move to one of the module. So there are two child module folder that needs to be created. You have ASG, you have IAM. So inside modules first we'll go ahead and create a ASG folder. Second we are going to create a IAM folder. Once both of these folders are created now it is important that we move the resource types that are mentioned in challenge three tph to the appropriate module folder. So let's jump back to Visual Studio Code now if you will explore the challenge. Hyphen 3.tf. There are certain resources that are created. Let's go ahead and move each one step by step. So the first resource that needs to be moved is AWS Launch Template. And it needs to go to the child module folder of ASG. So this AWS launch template will go ahead and will cut it. And in the modules folder we'll create a file called as RC dot f. And within here I'll go ahead and paste it here. Similarly, the AWS Auto Scaling Group resource also needs to go to the RC folder. So let's also move that you have AWS Auto Scaling Group. I'll cut it from here and I'll add it here. Now other two resources IAM user IAM user policy needs to go to the IAM folder. So let's do that. So IAM user IAM user policy. So this will cut it. And in the IAM we'll go ahead and we'll add the contents here. All right. So this is also some form of refactoring that is happening. Let's close this. So at this stage the challenge number three has trimmed down. And you have a data source and you have a local file. Now since this task of splitting resource into child modules does not really specify local file or data source, we'll just leave it as it is. The next part states that configure the appropriate module sources in the root module to load all of the child modules. So let's also go ahead and do that. So I'll say module of ASG. And for here the source would be modules ASG. Similarly we'll add a module of IAM. Source would be module I. All right. So this is created. We'll save this. And that's about it. This completes the task number one. The task number two is interesting. And one of the main tasks here which states that create shared config and credentials file setup shared AWS credentials and configuration file. For this project, the conf and credentials file must be present in the dot aws folder in the challenge three directory. So in the challenge three directory we'll go ahead and we'll create the dot aws folder. And inside this folder there must be a conf and credentials file that must be present. So now what we can do in the AWS folder here we'll create a conf file. And we'll also create a credentials file. Now the next point states that the config file which is this specific one must only have two profiles ESG and IAM no default or other profiles should be mentioned now in case if you want to refer on how a profile can be created as part of the config file, you can refer to the documentation of AWS. So now you can search for CLI documentation here. So you have the command line interface documentation. And within you will explore the user guide. Now in the user guide you can look into configure the AWS CLI. Let's look into configuration and credential file. This is what we are looking for. And within here you will get the base code over here. Now again there are multiple options. Specifically when you want to add content as part of your workstation based AWS config and credential file. You can look into the long term credentials option here. So here they have provided basic format on how you can define the profile. So here you see this is how a profile is defined in the config file. So let's copy this. We'll add it here. Since two profiles are required we'll add it two times. So what it states the config file must only have two profiles ESG and IEA. No default or other profile should be mentioned. So here you also have a default profile. We will not mention this. So first one is ESG. Second one is IAM. So this part is done. Next is use the region of US east one for both the profiles. Now when we copy pasted it from the documentation the default region was already US East one. So we'll leave it as it is. The next point states that both the ESG and IAM profile in AWS conf should point to the appropriate IAM role that were created in the base folder using the following details. So A is the profile should point to Arn of IAM role name, EC2 full access and IAM profile must point to the Arn of IAM role of IAM full access. So if you notice in the base task, there were two important roles that were created. EC2. Full access IAM full access. And the Arn was also shown as part of the output. So you have to add the appropriate Arn with these profiles. Now if you look into the output here this is the Arn. All right. Now since a profile should point to the Arn associated with the IAM role, you have to look into an example that shows on how you can do that. So in fact let's explore this documentation page. And you have one example related to role Arn. So this is what we are looking for. I'll copy this and I'll add it over here in both the places. Now as we know ASG profile must point to Arn of EC2 full access IAM role. So if you look over here, the EC2 full access IAM role has this Arn. You can copy this and you can add it over here. Similarly, IAM full access. I will copy this and I'll add it over here. Alright, so our two profiles are created. Now the next point states that the ASG and the IAM profile. Both the profiles that were created as part of the conf must use the credentials associated with the Cape Labs Challenge three user from the base folder to assume the necessary role. So first we have to identify where we can see the credentials associated with this user. Now what you can do. In fact, let's close this now before closing this we made a small mistake. This content should not be in credentials file. It should be in the conf file. All right I'll go ahead and I'll save this. Now in the base folder, if you look into the terraform.tf state file what we need to search. We need to search the credentials associated with Cape Labs Challenge three users, so I'll quickly copy this. Let's go ahead and find this. So I'll do a Ctrl f and I'll search for this. Now you see that associated with the Cape Labs Challenge three user. There is a access key. And there is a secret key that has been created. So we have to use this access key and this secret key to assume the roles that were configured in the conf file. So now what you can do. Let's go back. Now the credentials associated with this role can be added in the credentials file. Now in case if this is confusing you can always refer to the documentation to see how the credentials file is present. Now generally one thing to remember that in credentials file you do not have to add the profile, the profile part needs to be removed and the name of the profile. Whatever is present in the config file the credentials associated with that must be added in a format like this. So the credentials for user one profile in config file must be present in user one access key and secret access key. All right. So I'll copy this now in the credentials file I'll copy this two times. Now since the config file has two profiles. First we'll say as the second will say I am. This is one part. Second part is as we are discussing that both the ASG and IAM profile must use the credentials of KP labs challenge three user from the base folder. So from the base folder we'll copy the access key ID we'll add it here. The secret access key ID. Will add it here. And same thing. We'll just copy for IAM as well. So both of these profiles are using the access and secret key associated with the challenge three user. All right. So this completes the task number two which acts as a base for this challenge. The next task is also very important. Let's see what it states. ASG child module should make use of ASG profile. IAM child module should make use of IAM profile. Now at this stage we know that we had divided the contents of the challenge 3.tf into multiple module ASG and IAM. So what it is stating that ASG child module over here should make use of this specific profile, which assumes this role and IAM module should use this profile that assumes this role. So let's also go ahead and try it out. So in order to do that what you can do you can add multiple provider configuration. So I'll say provider AWS. Now since we do not really have a default profile, you can mention alias explicitly. First alias I'll set it to ASG, and the profile that we'll specify here would be ASG itself. Alright, now this provider should fetch the credentials from this specific conf and credentials file. So in order to do that you can refer to the AWS provider documentation. What we are looking for is the shared config and credentials file. This is what we are looking for. I'll copy this and we'll add it over here. All right let's do proper formatting. You can change the appropriate file path. Now since we do not have credits file the name of the file is credentials. So I'll change the name accordingly. All right. So this is one part. Second let's copy this one more time. This time we'll set alias to IAM profile also to IAM. And this part will remain to be same. so. Once you have defined this, now you have to define the next part, which states that the child module should make use of the appropriate profile, which is ASG and IAM. So this module should make use of this specific provider. And this module should make use of this specific provider. Now you can easily get this from the documentation. So from the Terraform documentation if you go to configuration language you can search for module. And within here you have providers within module which gives you a basic glimpse of the appropriate solution. So what you need to do let's explore this. You have to add this providers block at a root module level. So let's copy this and we'll add it here. Let's align it similarly we'll add it here as well. We'll align it. All right. Now ASG module must use the AEC provider. So what you can do this part will remain to be the same. This part will say AWS dot the alias name which is ASC. Similarly for IAM it must be aws IAM. This part will remain to be the same. I'll save this. The next part is to go ahead and specify the configuration alias. So this must be present in the child module. I'll copy this and within the child modules here let's go ahead and add the content. We'll remove this requirement here. And in the configuration alias we'll just specify AWS. All right. Same thing is required for IAM as well. And I'll save both of these files. So this is completed. The next one states that the data dot AWS color identity dot local must assume the read only role to fetch the data credentials of raw user can be used for authentication. Now, if you'll explore the base task, you have the read only role that is created as part of this. What it does is it provides read only access to the necessary services. Now if you'll explore challenge number three, this resources were not moved to the child module. All right. So what it is stating that this part must not use the roles which are easy to full access or IAM full access. Instead, it must use the read only role that was created. Now if you look into the base folder, there should also be a read only role. If in fact, if you look into the output, you have the read only role Arn. So let's copy this role Arn and temporarily we'll just add it here for reference. All right. So this specific data source Now again, at this stage, the path here is data dot AWS color identity dot local. But in this case it is current. So I'll just fix it temporarily. And by the time you pull the latest changes, this part would be fixed so you don't have to change it anyways. So this data source must assume the read only role to fetch the data. So how can we specify that what you can do. You can add one more provider block here. And you want this specific role to be assumed for this provider. Now there are again multiple ways to achieve this. However, one thing to note is that earlier it stated that the config file must only have two profile ASG and IAM. No default or other profile should be mentioned. So you could have also mentioned the read only profile as part of the conf file to get things going. But since the task explicitly states that you cannot add any other profile as part of the config or credentials file. We will not use this specific approach. So now what you need to do. You have to specify a provider. In fact let's do that. The provider let's call it as local. The profile is not really required here. Shared config and credentials while also not required here. Now we want this specific provider of alias local to assume this role. So in order to do that again you can explore the documentation. You have the option of assuming an IAM role. So this is what we require. So in fact let's copy this and let's do one thing. We will add it here. This alias of local will just add it here as well. And we'll remove the earlier provider block. So in the role Arn we'll just copy this specific Arn and add it here. External ID is not really required. Session name. You can just give any name as per your choice. All right so this specific part is done. Let's look into the second part. Here credentials of arrow user can be used for authentication. So what this means that if you want to assume this role you need some form of credentials to authenticate. And the task is stating that use the credentials of arrow hyphen user for authentication, which is to assume this role. Now if you look into the tf state file in the base folder, we are more interested in arrow user. So let's search for it. I'll search for arrow user. And this user also has a access key and the secret key. So what you can do since this role needs to be assumed, you can add the access secret key within this provider block itself. So again you can refer to the AWS provider documentation on how you can hard code the access secret keys. This is a good example. You can copy this and you can add it over here. Or you can just align it. And in the access key you can copy the access key of the arrow user. Secret key. Again you can fetch it from here. And that's about it I'll save it. Now since the question clearly states that this specific data source must assume the read only role which is provided here. What you need to do the data source over here, you can explicitly add the provider meta argument of AWS dot local. All right. So it uses the configuration that is specified for this provider block only I'll save this. All right. So let's do one thing. We'll conclude this video as of now. Otherwise it will become too long. In the next video we'll explore the other task as part of this challenge.