Hi everyone, and welcome to the part two of the Solution video for challenge number three. At this stage we have completed three tasks. Now let's start with the task number four. What is the task number four? States run Terraform. Apply command to deploy local underscore file resource. First. No other resource should be created at this step. Verify if txt file with account number is created successfully. Now if you look into the local file resource here what it does. It fetches the account number from this specific data source block. And that account number gets stored to this specific file called as account hyphen number dot. TXT. Now the task here states that you have to ensure that this resource gets created first, and no other resource like module IAM module ASG gets created. So now what you can do. Let's clear the screen. Let's go back to the base folder. And before we do a terraform apply first what is needed Terraform init. So when we run the terraform init, we are getting an error stating duplicate provider configuration. So let's quickly look into it. So let's go a bit up. All right. So this is where the issue is because the alias of both of them is IAM. In fact we seem to have two similar blocks. Let's go ahead and remove this I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's run the Terraform init command. Once again this is done. Now you have to run the terraform apply command. Before that, let's just do a quick validate to ensure there are no errors. And in fact there is an error which states data resource caller identity current has not been declared. Now again this is similar issue where we had renamed it, but here it was not really renamed. You will not really face this issue because I'll fix this as part of our git repository. Once this is done, you can just do a Terraform validate. Let's verify if other configuration is good and it is. So now we'll do a terraform apply. However, we only want a local file resource to be created and no other resources, so we can make use of target of local underscore file. You can just look into the part. It is this. So I'll just call it as this. Let's see what it is trying to do. So as expected the content it was able to fetch from the data source I'll just enter. Yes. And the file is created. Now if you look into the account hyphen number dot txt this is populated with the account number. In your case it will be your AWS account number. All right so this part is completed. So the next step here it states that run the Terraform apply auto approve to create all other resources. So let's also do that. So now I'll run Terraform apply with auto approve to ensure that all the resources are created. Now in case if your configuration related to the IAM role and the provider is not created correctly, this part will fail. So in case if this succeeds, that means that your provider related configuration is done correctly. All right. So let's quickly wait for a moment here. All right. So we got an error. What does the error states. No such entity. The user with name success user cannot be found. And where is it coming from. It is coming from module IAM imtf line 15. So let's look into it. So IAM line 15. So this is where it is coming from this specific block. So what it is doing AWS IAM user policy is being attached to this user success user. And it is saying the user with this name success user cannot be found. So somehow it is not able to locate this specific IAM user due to which this policy based code is getting failed. Now if you'll explore this code carefully, ideally as part of best practice, What should be done. This should not be mentioned. Instead, you should mention something like aws iam underscore user dot elb followed by name. So when you have this kind of a setup, what will happen is it creates a dependency. So only after this the policy will be created. Otherwise when multiple resources are created parallely and there is no dependency, both implicit or explicit, which is defined, you will get an error something similar to this. All right. So there are again multiple ways to solve this. I'll just remove this part. Let's go back to the base code. Now at this stage what you can do you can go ahead and run this again. Because if you will see it has created the success hyphen user and Parallely. It was also trying to create a policy and this was the reason of error. So now since the success hyphen user is already created, now if you run the command again, let's try this. It will not really feel alright because this user has already been created earlier. So let's try this. And we also looked into the best practice solution that you should follow when you have such kind of errors and applies completed, the pending resource has also been created. Great, I'll clear the screen. So this marks the completion of task number four. Now task number five states that change the desired capacity in Terraform code from 1 to 2. Now, if you know the resource types that have been created, you can identify which resource has this argument of desired capacity. So this is associated with auto scaling. Now if you look into auto scaling you have a desired capacity equals to one. So this basically means that total of one EC2 instance will be running as part of the auto scaling group. If you change it to two what will happen. Total of two EC2 instance will be running. All right. So I'll just revert it back to one. Now what it states change desired capacity in Terraform code from 1 to 2. So let's just change it to two. Next it states that add the appropriate solution that ignores any change that is made to the desired capacity, so that only one EC2 instance runs as part of the desired capacity. Similar to the base code that is provided. Now, what this basically means is that if you open up the auto scaling group that is created, this auto scaling group here has a desired capacity of one. So what it is stating first, change it from 1 to 2, and then it is also asking us to add the appropriate solution that ignores this specific change, so that only one EC2 instance run as part of the desired capacity. Now, at this stage, since we have modified it from 1 to 2, when you do a terraform plan, Terraform will try to change the desired capacity of the auto scaling group to two. Let's see. It is changing it to two. And when you do terraform, apply it will be moved to a total of two. EC2 instances will be running. So the next task is asking us that this part of modification of desired capacity should be ignored, and only the base value that was used as part of the creation should be used. So in order to ignore this, you have to make use of the lifecycle meta argument. So this will require searching. So let's search for lifecycle will open this. And there are again multiple lifecycle meta argument. The one that you can make use of is the ignore changes here. All right. So let's do one thing I'll copy this. And you can add the lifecycle meta argument. Let's just format it correctly. And what are the things you want to ignore. You want to ignore the desired capacity. So I'll copy this and we'll add it over here. I'll save this. Let's look into the next step. It says after you have applied the solution, try changing the capacity of a resource to verify if Terraform plan is changing, updating it in actual resource. Now this part is already done where desired capacity is modified from 1 to 2. So in order to test if our life cycle meter argument works, you can just run the Terraform plan again. And if things are working, it should ignore the changes that we have made here. As expected, it is ignoring all of the changes. All right, so this marks the completion of five important task. The next important task is to destroy the infrastructure. Now within here you have to make sure that the infrastructure that you destroy first it should not be of base folder. All right. Because in the base folder there were some access and secret keys that were created. And this secret access keys were used to create the infrastructure of the main challenge three folder. So if you run Terraform destroy in the base folder first, then you will not be able to destroy the resources that are part of the challenge three main folder. So in order to do that, what you can do, you can run the Terraform destroy with auto approve. Make sure this is not the base folder. All right. So it took around a minute and a half for the resources to be destroyed. Once this is done. Now you can go to the base folder and also destroy all of the resources that are created from your. Grid. So this marks the completion of challenge number three. I hope you liked the challenge. The main aim again was to understand different configuration options that you can use as part of the AWS provider, and also how it can integrate with the Terraform code. So with this will conclude today's video.