Hi everyone, and welcome to the interesting challenge number four. So let's go ahead and look into what it is all about. So at a high level overview, the primary aim of this challenge is to test your understanding about some of the important topics like count and count dot index, the for expression and the output values. Now the area that we are discussing as part of this challenge again is quite important whenever you are working with Terraform from production environment perspective, but it is equally important from exam perspective as well. So at a high level overview, when we discuss about the test areas as part of this challenge, count and count dot index. Again this is quite important for you to know. And again you will be tested as part of this challenge, transforming values for expression output values and also fetching the data from the external file. Now generally when we discuss about challenges where for expression or count is used, maybe to fetch the data from external file, transformation of values is concerned. Generally in such cases, we have seen that students are a little uncomfortable with and that is as expected generally when you have complex data structure for again for a simple data structure. The overall approach is simple, but when the data structure becomes a little complex, then this part of for expression to extract the data and maybe some level of transformation, etc. it takes a little amount of time and efforts. And again, this is the aim of this challenge to make you comfortable with important areas related to for expression, fetching data from external files, using count to create resource based on the content of external files, and so on. Again, a very interesting challenge and aim is to get you comfortable with these topics because not only it is important from production perspective, but from exam perspective. Also, it is important for you to know these. All right. So that's a very high level overview about the challenge number four. In the next video we'll start with the solution. Go ahead and spend some time trying to solve this. If you directly look into the solution it will not really give you good amount of learning. But if you try to go ahead and spend some time solving and trying to figure out the appropriate solution, it will really help you in the long run. All right, so that's the overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.