Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number four. Now one thing that you will see as part of this challenge, you also have a EC2 dot CSV file that has been presented to you. So you will have to use this file as part of the challenge. Now again in this challenge the number of tasks are only two, but sub tasks are much more higher than the main tasks here anyways. So let's explore the task number one. Again, a very simple task. The task is to create an EC2 instance. Now let's see what it states based on the contents of the EC2 dot csv file. Create an EC2 based on the following conditions. Now, before we look into the condition, let's quickly explore what the CSV file holds for us. Now let's quickly open this up in our Visual Studio Code. Now within Visual Studio, we have a EC2 dot CSV, and again it contains certain information like the instance type, the Ami ID, the region, and the team name. So these are some of the values based on which you have to create a EC2 instance from. So let's explore the condition. First condition is only create EC2 instance if region is us east one. Now if you explore the CSV file in the region over here, you have multiple region that are specified US East one AP South, one US East one AP South East one. So only EC2 instances needs to be created based on the data of the CSV file. If the region is us east one, which is line two and line four. Now there are other conditions as well. Now before we explore other condition, first let's go ahead and implement this specific step post which will be discussing things in detail. Now going back to the Visual Studio Code, let's do one thing. Let's create a file called as challenge hyphen 4.tf. And the first thing that we need to do is we have to fetch this data from an external file. So you need to make use of the CSV decode function. Because first thing is to fetch the data, and then you have to filter the data based on the condition that have been specified in task one. And based on that, the EC2 instance needs to be created. All right. So first thing let's go ahead and quickly create locals. And within here let's just call it as CSV data. And within here we are going to make use of the CSV decode function. So if you explore the CSV decode function from the documentation, you pass on the CSV file and it will decode it accordingly. Along with that, again, there are multiple examples that are being provided here. So we are going to keep it simple. First we want to extract the data from this CSV file. So we'll say CSV decode within. Here we are going to make use of file function which can reference to this specific file which is EC2 dot CSV. ESV. Now, generally, what I personally prefer to do is whenever I write some functions or maybe transformation related code, I like to output it to see if it is actually working before I input it to other resources. So for example, let's try to output this specific value local dot csv underscore data to ensure that at least this is working before we proceed with step number two. Now for the challenge number four, I'll open this up with terminal. Let's go ahead and quickly do a Terraform init. Once this is done we'll do a Terraform plan. And at this stage we are getting all of the data. So in total there are four entries over here. And if you look into the CSV you have one, two, three and four. Great. So this part is important. Now as part of the task one step one what it states only create EC2 instance if region is us east one. So EC2 instance needs to be created for us east one region. So basically this block and you have this block. All right. So this and this block should be ignored because they are of different region. So now you can write the second entry here. Let's just call it as final EC2. And within here again there are multiple approaches we are going to make use of for expression here. So let's say for region in local dot CSV underscore data, what do you want. You want to specify regions. If regions dot or instead of region you can just say value for value in CSV data give me value if value. In fact before you write this, if condition what you can do generally you can just try this out at a basic level. So for example you can do something like value. Just see what exactly it presents to you. And within here I'll say final EC two. So at this stage what we are trying to do, we are trying to output everything, but later we just want these two entries, which is us East one and us East one. We do not really want these entries at this stage, so I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do Terraform plan and at this stage we are getting four entries as we know now we have to filter two entries based on this specific region. So now what you can do for value in local dot CSV underscore data value if value dot what you want. Value dot region equals to. In fact let's just maximize this US East one. All right I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll run Terraform plan again. And this time you see we are only getting two entries. This is perfect because ultimately the EC2 instance needs to be created based on the values associated with each of the entries. Great. So I'll just remove this commented part over here and I'll save this. Let's explore step number two, which states that inside AWS underscore instance resource type count and count dot index should be used for iterating looping over data. So basically this is the data. Now if you want to iterate over it or if you want to loop over it, there are again multiple ways you can use for as well. But the question explicitly says that you have to use count and count dot index only. All right. So this is the first requirement. And here it says for each or for expression should not be used inside the AWS instance resource type. You are free to use it elsewhere. There should be only a single AWS underscore instance resource block in the solution code. So let's go ahead and define that. All right. So first I'll define a AWS underscore instance. And within here there are certain important things that we'll have to define like Ami you have instance type. These are the two important areas. Now as we are seeing that only create EC2 instance if region is us east one. And we saw in total there are two EC2 instances where region is set to us east one. So that means total of two EC2 instance needs to be created. As we are discussing in the step two, we have to make use of count and count dot index primarily and not for each and for expression. So what you can do in here, you can add a count and within count you can set it as two. Now this is a very basic approach. And ideally this should not be used in production environment because it can happen that at a later stage the number of entries in a CSV file can change. Or maybe in the initial stage itself you might have 3040 entries. It cannot be easy to instance. It can be other resource like VPC, security group, etc. so what you can do, you can just use a length function and you can reference to this. For example length local dot final underscore EC2. Alright. So in total as we know output there are two values. So this should be counted as two. Again, as we were discussing you can always test your code before you add it here. So you can just add it in output. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. You got two. So this part is fine. The next part here is the army and the instance underscore type. Now what you need to do the Army ID you can just check if they are similar they are different and so on. Now you see that they are similar. You can hardcode, but what happens if they are different? So again, hard coding is not the best approach. There is a much more easier approach that you can make use of. So let's do one thing. Let's just comment it out. First thing that you need to understand before you write the final code here is to extract the value that is being presented as part of local dot final underscore EC2. For example local dot final underscore EC2. So these are the two entries. Now you have to look into how you can extract the value associated with each entry over here. So let's try that out. I'll say Ami IDs. And within here let's say local dot final underscore EC2 which will reference to this data. And within this data also you want to fetch the Ami ID associated with say one entry. All right. Let's say I want to fetch this specific entry. Ahmed. Now, in order to do that, let's do one thing. So for local final EC2 you can just specify zero. Let's see what is the output here. So if you do a Terraform plan you see we got filtered by the first entry here which is this one. And this will be referenced by one. So if you want to reference to this specific Ami ID, the first thing that you have to add here will be zero. All right. This is what we just tested. Now after this we have to reference to this specific key. So now what you can do. You can just specify the name which is Ami underscore ID. All right. Like this. Let's save this. So hopefully this time we should only see the ami ID. And as expected we are only seeing the ami ID now similar approach you can use as part of this block. So I'll just copy it and I'll add it here. Now, the problem is that the question clearly states that only a single resource block of AWS underscore instance should be used. So by manually hardcoding the index is not the appropriate solution. So what you can do instead, since count is used you can use count dot index. All right. So it will iterate over this automatically. And this is the simple solution. Now the second one is the instance type. So if you look into the instance type over here you will see that one has an instance type of nano. Second has an instance type of micro. Now generally if you look into the instance type of AWS, you generally do not have instance type with just nano and micro. You will see the instance type would be something like T2 dot nano or T2 dot micro and so on. So at this stage, let's say that you use the same logic for the instance type as well. This part you have to change to instance underscore type. Alright let's just remove the comment. Let's see if this approach works. Now I'll just clear the screen. I'll do a Terraform plan. Let's just quickly do a terraform init once again. All right. Now when we do terraform plan let's see if we are getting error or EC2 instances are getting created. And as expected we have two EC2 instances which are getting created. The Ami ID just verify if you are getting it and the second is the instance type. Now the problem here again as we know that these instance type do not exist. So when you try to do a terraform apply it will fail because nano and micro instance type do not exist in AWS by this name. So now let's go back to task number one. So at this stage the step two is partially completed. The step number three which states ensure that instance type ami id are dynamically set based on the CSV file content. This is also completed now, as we are discussing that the value in the CSV is not accurate from the perspective of AWS, so you need to transform it. And this is what the step number four states, which says that the following value of instance type from CSV should be replaced in the AWS instance resource type based on the following requirement. So micro should be T2. Micro nano should be T3 nano. So in order to do that again we can make use of locals to create a basic workflow. So let's say instance underscore types. And within here we'll create a map let's say micro equals to T2 dot micro and nano equals to T2 dot nano. All right a very simple approach here. Now again you have to test it. So in the output you can just specify instance underscore types. And just for the time being let's just comment out the AWS instance resource type. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. And as expected we are getting this value. Now the question is if micro is being specified we want the T2 micro value to be considered. So for example now let's say we specify micro because in the CSV file you have micro that is written and nano that is written. So if value of micro is provided here, what should be the final value. It should be t2 dot micro. So now if I do a Terraform plan you see we are getting T2 dot micro. So this kind of logic is also something that you can use. So now what you can do again as we know that this will not really work because it will just fetch this value. However, we want this mapping to take place. So in order to do that what you can do local dot final underscore EC2. Let's modify this. So let's do one thing. We'll use a approach something similar to this where local instance underscore type. And inside here we'll specify this part. Let's see if this works something similar to this right. So local dot instance underscore types. And as we know this specific pointer will give us two output values. So again let's try this out. Otherwise it will be confusing. Now local dot instance underscore type. As we were seeing over here local dot instance underscore type. If the value that is provided is micro it will give us the final value of T2 micro. So basically this is the key and this is the value. So now what we are trying to do this part local dot final underscore EC2 as we know it will fetch the content here. And then you have count dot index. So count dot index. If it is zero it will reference to this specific data. Now you are also specifying instance underscore type. So in this specific data the instance underscore type is micro. So ultimately what will happen. This entire part will be moved to this in the final computation that Terraform makes which is local instance type micro. And then since count index is used in the second iteration it will be nano. And as we know when you have this kind of data that has been specified over here, you will get T2 micro and you will get T2 nano. All right so let's try this out. In fact you can also try it out. Count dot index will not directly work here. You can just reference by zero to see if it is working. So I'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan and as expected, you are getting T2 micro and when you change to index of one you get T2 dot nano. So the same logic you will add it over here. Let's paste it. And instead of manually adding the index here you can just specify count dot index. So it will iterate over each index here. All right. So let's try this out. I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. Let's verify the instance type this time. And the instance type is computed t2 dot nano and t2 dot micro. Great. So our step number four is also completed. The next step here is map the team underscore name value from CSV to the EC2 instances name tag. So what it is trying to tell that team underscore name. There is a value over here. This value should be associated with the name tag key as part of the resource so you can say tags. In fact, if this is a little confusing, if you do not know the format, that is fine. You can always go to the documentation. This is the format of tags. All right. You can copy it from here as well. And you can just add it over here. All right. So there is a tag with the key of name. And this key should have the value that is part of the CSV file. So the first EC2 instance has a value of security. Second has a value of DevOps. So now what you can do. Again you cannot hard code it. You will have to iterate over the content of the CSV file again. So in fact you can use this specific logic. And within here you can say team underscore name. Just verify the exact name team underscore name. This seems to be good I'll save this. Once this is done let's go ahead and try to do terraform. Plan again to see if everything is as expected. Just verify we are getting tags of name is equal to DevOps. And for the other tag of name is equal to security. This looks good output value. Again, since this was just for our testing, I'll just comment it out. We do not really need it. Let's save this. And now let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply to ensure there are no errors in the actual deployment. And great, both of the EC2 instances are created. So let's also quickly verify the final output from the AWS console. We'll go to instances. And as expected you see there are two EC2 instances running. One with the name of DevOps, second with the name of security. Great. So that marks the task one as completed. Now you also have the task to relate it to output values, which we'll be discussing in the next video.