Hi everyone, and welcome to the part two of the Solution video for challenge number four. Now as part of this we have to implement the output values. So what does the task two state create output values that display the following information for each created EC2 instance. As we know, there are a total of two EC2 instances that were created and what is the output value that it is expecting? First one is the instance id. So this specific instance id that you see, this is what it wants as the output value. Then is the region. Then you have the team name which is basically the tag. Then you have the instance type, the subnet ID and the security group ID. Now one thing that you need to keep in mind is that the output value requirement is not only expecting you to fetch some data that might be present in the CSV file, but it is also expecting you to fetch some data that is not in the CSV file and not defined in the resource type of AWS instance, for example the subnet ID or the security group ID. Since we have not really defined the subnet ID or security group ID, they were used with the defaults. Here. For example, let's consider this EC2 instance. Now if we go a bit down let's see the subnet ID and security group ID you can check if it is available here. If it is not available then there are multiple tabs. For example security tab. Here you have the security group ID. Here you see this is the ID which is associated with the default security group. So you need to fetch this ID. Then when you go to networking you have this subnet ID. So all of this were auto selected even when they were not added as part of the configuration. So in the output values not only you have to output multiple set of values, but you need to also fetch the values that were computed during the terraform apply stage. Now there are multiple ways to achieve this. You can make use of data source to connect to the AWS account and fetch the appropriate value. Otherwise, the more simpler solution is you can look into the state file, because ultimately, all of the attributes associated with the EC2 instance will be present in the state file. So you can fetch the data from the state file. That will also work. So let's try this out. For example in the resources of AWS underscore instance, since we had made use of count. So here you will have index key of zero and index key of one. So zero is the first EC2 instance. And for the first EC2 instance you can look into this specific data and look where exactly the security group ID and the subnet ID is present. So this is the security group name. We want the security group ID and this is the subnet ID. So this is one part that we need. So let's do one thing I'll just copy this. And temporarily I'll just add here stating that this is one part that we need to fetch the data from. And the security group ID you see it is present here. So you can also copy this and you can just add it over here. So these are the two important data that we want to fetch. Now since we have to fetch it from the perspective of output values. Again there are multiple approaches that you can use. Let's use one among them. So what you can do you can try for expression here. Why. Because you will see that you have multiple set of instances over here. This instance with the index key of zero and one more instance with the index key of one. So just for example, if you say for. In fact, in such cases you can also look into the documentation. You can just use for expression here. Now again, depending upon the data, the for expression might change. For example over here. In fact, let's go a bit down. Let's explore other examples whichever is more suitable for our approach. Let's go a bit up. This is the more accurate example here where it is stating this example. For a map or a object type like above, the k symbol refers to the key or the attribute name of the current element, and you can also use one more element of v. So you can also make use of index or the key symbol as part of this. Again, it depends upon what kind of data that is involved. Now for this kind of data we have to make use of that. So let's say for key value in. We want to target this specific resource type so directly by referencing to. State file. Instead of that you can directly reference to this resource in AWS underscore instance dot this. All right. And now what you want let's say I want key. Let's save this. Now let's run the Terraform plan to see if our logic works. All right. So this time we are getting the index which is zero and one. Now what happens if we specify a value over here. Let's also try I'll save this. Let's run the Terraform plan again. So this time you see we are getting the value. Now this will be associated with both the EC2 instance. You see this completes the first one. And this is the second one. So this is the first one. As you can see this is the first one. And this is the second one over here. So now the next thing is we need certain values for example subnet underscore id. So let's try subnet underscore id I'll save this. Let's do a Terraform plan. And we are getting the subnet ID over here. All right. So this is the basic logic that you can use as part of output values. Now again this time we in fact need the output value. So we'll not comment this out. So we'll use this logic. But the main challenge here again is multiple data is required. You just do not really need a single type of data. You need instance, ID, region, team name, etc. etc. and the format is something very similar where the instance ID should look something similar to this region, should look something similar to this, and so on. Now, since multiple set of key values are required, what is the data type that you will use? You will not really use a list. Right. So you will use something like object or a map etc.. So let's use this now within your what we are going to do, we are going to reference to this because the formatting of the output value should be something similar to this. The values can change. So within your first thing let's see id. So I'll specify id equals to value dot. What is the attribute name here where the instance id is present. Now the simplest way you can just filter. Let's just copy this instance id I'll just do a ctrl f. Let's search here and you have ID so you can specify something like this. All right. The next thing let's see is the subnet. So subnet you can just say value dot. In fact we had commented it Subnet underscore ID. I'll just add it here. Then you have the type. You have team. You have region and you have firewall ID which is basically the security group ID over here. So let's also try this. So firewall ID equals to value dot. We had added the exact attribute. I'll just copy it here. All right. Now the next thing here is the instance type. Now in the instance type you see it is not T2 micro. It is thus micro. So this we have to fetch it from the CSV file and not from the actual created EC2 instance resource. So what you can do here, let's say type equals to we will not use the value. All right. Instead we'll just specify because this is the place where the data is coming from. So we can say something like local dot final underscore EC2. Followed by we need count index something like this 0 or 1 and so on. All right. So in fact you can just test it out to avoid any final confusion. Let's define a simple output value. Value equals to this one local dot final underscore EC2. You have the index. And then you can specify something like region because we need the region as well. All right let's save this. We'll do a Terraform plan. Let's see if the region is coming. The region is coming as US East one. Now again, since both of the EC2 instances are in US East one region again in exam, in case if you have less time, you can manually hard code us East one. That is fine. All right. However, in case if regions are different then that will not really work. So in such case What you need you need this index to change for example, zero, one and so on. So this is where this part comes into picture where we were discussing the first part. Here is the index. Second part is the value. So in fact just for a better naming convention you can just also just reference it as a index only it will become much more simpler. All right. So let's just comment out. The second output value will remove the comment earlier. So for this I can say index followed by region. All right. So this type of approach will also work. Now generally before you create other things let's try this out. So I'll clear the screen. You can do a Terraform plan. So for both the EC2 instances you are getting firewall ID the type is US East one, the instance ID and the subnet. Now again just for simplicity this index is referencing to this. So in case if I change it to key and if I do a Terraform plan, you see we are getting error. Alright, so this is just for reference. Let's change it back. So this is one part. Second part what we needed. Let's verify we have team. Now again for the team you can just quickly use the same approach because if you try to make it very optimal you will not be able to complete the exam question. So once you figure out the basic logic, you can just quickly use that logic for other areas as well. So in this case it is team underscore name. Alright team underscore name. So this part should also be done. So you have 12345. And here 12345 you have one more that is missing. And that would be the type. So again the type you can just use the same. Again we had made a mistake here in the type we have specified region. That is fine. Let's just change it to region and we'll add one more of type. And within here you can just specify the instance underscore type and get it completed. Now one more thing that you have to ensure. Because here it is clearly stating that the formatting of your output value should be similar. The values can change. So here the name of output value is running EC2. So let's change this to running EC2 and this part. Just verify if the name is same ID region, subnet, team, type ID region, subnet team type, and firewall underscore ID. So that looks good I'll save this will clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. And this is the output. Now make sure that you commit it. So you have to run the Terraform. Apply auto approve so that it gets added as part of the state file. And this is the final output over here, which is very similar to the example that is added as part of the challenge number four. Great. So that's a very high level overview about challenge number four. Now again one thing is that we can further optimize the code to be much more better. But you should not do this from the perspective of exam. Whatever works quickly go ahead and implement it. There will be a validation step generally for this type of question, which will show you that this is the output that you require. So based on that, whatever solution that you are able to quickly implement, do it if hard coding is required, hard coded. Because ultimately if the validation step succeeds, that is what is required. Considering that the steps that you have implemented matches the requirement that is added as part of the task. All right. So with this we'll conclude today's video.