Hi everyone, and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number five. So let's get started now as part of task one. Over here it states that we have to create base resources. So what it states navigate to the base folder and run the following command which is Terraform. Apply with auto approve. Now in the challenge number five let's open this. You have a base folder that is available. Now. If I quickly open this with Visual Studio Code. This base folder contains a TF file called as base.tf, and this in turn contains certain resources like VPC subnets. So it creates certain VPCs and it creates certain subnets. So now we'll go ahead and follow the approach that was suggested. First thing that you need to do is run the Terraform init. Once this is done go ahead and run the terraform. Apply with auto approve and ensure that resources are created. Great. So once the resources are created, you can also run the Terraform state list command to see what are the resource types that are created. We see that we have certain VPCs that are created and certain subnets that are created as part of this. So this marks the task one to be completed. Let's look into the task number two which is to define a data source. So what it says create a file name data source.tf inside the base folder. So let's do this. First I'll copy this. And in the base folder I'll create this file. Now the next point states that define a data source to fetch the IDs of two subnets named subnet hyphen subnet one and subnet hyphen subnet two from custom VPC named challenge five VPC. So now to understand this in a better terms let's quickly go to the VPC service. Let's go to VPCs. And you see that apart from the default VPC that is generally available for all the region, there are two additional VPCs that are created. Now what the task is saying that the subnet associated with this challenge, hyphen hyphen VPC, should be fetched using data source. Now let's go ahead and filter by this specific challenge fi VPC. And if you look into the subnets there are two subnet. Subnet. Hyphen subnet one. Subnet hyphen subnet two. So this ID associated with this subnet needs to be fetched using the data source. Now within the AWS provider let's go ahead and search by AWS subnet. In fact let's also search it through browser. Now it is in resource. You also have in data source. We are more interested in data source. Let's open one among them. So this is the data source of AWS subnet. And let's see if there are any example. So you have a filter example here. This seems to be good. We'll copy this and you can add this filter example here. Now if you look into the subnets here let's open one among them. Let's see if it has the associated tag. And yes, it has the tag with the key of name value of subnet hyphen subnet one. So this is easy. I'll copy the value. And within here you have a tag of name. This is already populated. We'll just specify the value over here and I'll save this. And we'll copy this one more time. This time we'll say subnet two. All right. You can also verify subnet hyphen. Subnet two has the appropriate tag. And it has. And then what it states displayed the fetched subnet IDs as output values named subnet IDs. So let's copy this. And within here I'll add a output value named subnet IDs. And within here what you need. Whatever IDs that are associated with this subnet needs to be fetched. Now to begin with you can just try and see if this specific filter that you have specified is returning certain subnet IDs or not. All right. This is the first thing that you have to verify. Let's in fact try this before we use the output values. Now from the base folder I'll run the Terraform plan. At this stage it is stating duplicate configuration. That is fine. Let's just call it as subnet zero one and this one as subnet zero two. Let's run the Terraform plan again. And at this stage we are getting error. What it states multiple EC2 subnets matched. Use additional constraints to reduce match to single EC2 subnet. Now again there are multiple ways you can add multiple set of filters. But one important thing specifically when you have this kind of error or if you are not able to locate the subnet at all, is to explicitly specify the VPC ID. For example, for the subnet data source, you also have option of specifying the VPC underscore ID. so what you can do, you can specify the VPC underscore id and lets copy the VPC id associated with challenge five VPC. And I'll add it here. Same for the second. And I'll save this. Once this is done you have narrowed down the appropriate query. So this time we are not really getting error. That means that the subnet ID has been successfully fetched. Now the next step here is to display the fetched subnet IDs as output values named subnet underscore IDs. So now you can go ahead and try this out. So I'll just remove the comment. So in this specific output value you need to add the subnet ID associated with both of them. So now within here what you can do let's use the simple approach. You can say data dot AWS underscore Subnet. Dot subnet one. In fact it is subnet underscore zero one followed by the attribute associated with this subnet. So for this you can just look into where exactly the subnet ID is present. Or you can also use something like a splat expression something like this just to see where exactly the appropriate attribute lies. So now when you do the Terraform plan, once again you see all of the attributes are being presented to you. We are more interested in this attribute which is ID. So now you can just specify ID over here. Let's save this. And if you run the Terraform plan once again. This is one ID that has been presented. And in a similar way. Let's copy this. We'll change it to subnet two and I'll save this. Let's clear the screen I'll run the Terraform plan. And as expected we are getting two subnet IDs. Always verify 38291. So let's verify in the subnets we have three eight and 291. Great. So this marks the completion of task number two. Let's go to the task number three which states create EC2 instances in custom subnets. What is the first step here? Create a new file called as EC2 dot f in the bass folder. So in fact let's do that. I'll create a new file called as ec2.tf. And within here define only a single AWS underscore instance resource block. Use the forEach to iterate over data as necessary to create two EC2 instances, and it is also saying one EC2 will be in subnet hyphen subnet one whose subnet ID was faced in task number two, which is this one and second in subnet hyphen subnet two. So basically one EC2 instance will be created in this specific subnet. Second EC2 instance will be created in this specific subnet. So now let's search by AWS underscore instance even at a browser level to quickly identify. So in the resource we have AWS underscore instance you can fetch the base code from here I'll copy this and let's add it over here I'll remove other parts like tags from here. Now at this stage, since certain information like the ami ID is not really mentioned, you can use whatever latest Ami is available for the region. So let's go to the instance. I'll launch the instance and whatever ami id may be with Ubuntu or Amazon Linux. You can copy this. And within here We'll add it here. Instance type. We'll use the one associated with free tier. In this case it is T2 micro. Now at this stage, we know that a total of two EC2 instances needs to be created. However, the task clearly states that we have to define only a single AWS instance resource block, and we have to make use of forEach to iterate, so only one resource block will be required here. Now the next important part, because we have to launch each EC2 instance in a different subnet. So in such case first we have to identify how do we launch a EC2 instance in a specific subnet. So you can search by subnet if there is any information. So here it is. So for AWS instance you have a subnet ID and you can specify the ID here. So let's just specify subnet underscore ID. And then we have to specify ID here. Now in case if we would had used multiple EC2 instances. Here you could had hardcoded the ID over here. It would have been much more simpler. However, the question clearly states that we have to make use of foreach to iterate over the necessary data. Now what is necessary data that we want the foreach to iterate over? It is the subnet IDs. So what you can do just for simplicity you can use for each and within. Here you can directly copy this and you can add it over here. Let's see if this approach works. And within here you can say subnet ID equals to value. In fact it would be each dot value. Alright let's see if this approach works. I'll clear the screen. We'll do our Terraform plan. At this stage we are getting error. The given for each argument must be a map or a set of strings, and you have provided value of type tuple. So in such case, what you can do, you can just use two set function. All right. In fact let's maximize this. So let's also quickly explore this. So if you look into this specific function what it states pass a list value to two set to convert it to a set. So this is two set. And then you can pass the list over here. So this is what we have done. We'll save this. And now let's try to run the Terraform plan here. And this time you see it seems to be working. Just verify the subnet. You have 291 for the second EC2 instance and three eight for the first. So just verify you have 291 and you have three eight. Great. So this part is now completed. At this stage we have to create the EC2 instance. So let's go ahead and do that. So I'll clear the screen. Let's go ahead and do a terraform. Apply with auto approve to create the necessary instances. And great total of two instances are created. So let's also verify. So I'll go to instances. And at this stage you see we have two EC2 instances that are running. So this marks the task three to be completed. Let's explore the task number four which is related to creation of security group. So what it states create a new file CTF in the base folder. Let's do this. So now. Let's create a CTF and define a single AWS security Group resource block using for each to create two. Security group app one SG app two SG. So now let's do one thing. Let's copy this. Let's search for AWS security Group here. Let's copy the basic code. We'll copy this and we'll add it over here. All right I'll just remove unnecessary part here. Now what it states define a single AWS security Group resource block to create two security group here. So only one resource block needs to be defined here. Now you have to make use of for each. So let's just specify for each here. And we have to use the foreach to iterate over something. Right. So what you can do again there are multiple ways you can just define variable. Let's call it as z names. And the type will just define it as a set of strings and value. Let's specify app one and app two as. So this is one. In fact, this should be default and not value. App one. SG and app. Hyphen two. SG all right, so since this is a set now you can reference it from here. So in foreach we can specify var.sg underscore names. And the name over here we can specify each dot value. All right. And also VPC id is important. Otherwise it will be created in a default VPC. So at this stage you see it states ensure that security groups are created in challenge hyphen five hyphen VPC. So now what you can do. You can just copy the VPC ID of this. Or a much more better way would be aws_vpc.main.id. Now if you look into the base code the challenge five VPC over here, the resource address is AWS underscore VPC dot main. And in fact this is what we got from the documentation. So this is set. Let's go ahead and save this. So in total this should create. Two security groups for us. Let's verify now I'll do a Terraform plan. And at this stage yes there are two security groups that are created. One with the name of app, one second with the name of app two. This looks good. Let's go ahead and run the Terraform. Apply auto approve to create both the security groups. Great. Now once the security groups are created, always verify. So within the console you can go to security groups. And within here we have the app one SG and the app two SG. Great. So that also marks the task four to be completed. So now let's do one thing. The task number five is a little lengthy. It will take a little amount of time. So we will conclude this video. And in the solution video part two will start with task five.