Hi everyone, and welcome to the part two of the Solution video for challenge number five. So currently we are at the task number five which is to create security group rules. So let's read what it states, refer to the content of the CSV file and create security group rule based on the following conditions. Now first let's explore the SC dot csv file over here. Let's see on what are the contents here. So there are certain contents like name, direction, protocol, Cidr block, description and port. So this data is important whenever you create security group rules. And what it states here. Use a single AWS VPC security Group ingress rule resource block to create security group inbound rule for app hyphen one SC security group. So if you remember we had created two security group here. One is the app hyphen, one is. The second one is app hyphen two SC. So currently the step in the task is referencing to this security group. So what it states if description in the CSV is app hyphen one, the rule must be associated with app hyphen one. Hyphen SC. So you can also verify in SC dot csv we have a description here. So if a description is app hyphen one. So some has app hyphen one some has app hyphen two. So if a description is app hyphen one then the rule must be associated with this specific security group here. And then it also states only consider inbound rules. Outbound rules should be ignored. So let's see for app hyphen one you have one rule. You have two rule. You have three rule over here. Now if you look into the direction some rule has in, some rule has out. So we are more interested in the direction of in which is associated with inbound. So let's start now. First, as we were discussing we have to use the AWS VPC security Group ingress rule. So again, from the name itself we know that this will create ingress rule here. So let's search. I'll search for AWS VPC security group ingress rule I'll copy the base code whatever is available. So this is the base code. Let's copy this. And in the sgtf we'll add it here. And again here it states use a single resource block. So you cannot use multiple block. You can use a single resource block of this type. So you'll have to iterate over data because there are multiple rules that are present in the CSV. Now before we go ahead and iterate over the data, the first important thing that we need is to fetch the content from the CSV file. So here we can make use of locals, let's say CSV decode. And within here we'll specify CSV decode function. And inside this we'll make use of the file function to reference to the SC dot csv file. And just for simplicity, we'll also use output to see on how the data really looks like. And we'll reference it to local CSV underscore decode. Let's save this. And now we'll run the Terraform plan to get a gist on how exactly the data looks like, so that it helps us in the overall iteration over multiple entries. All right. So this is how the data really looks like. Again you see there are multiple entries over here. We are not interested in all of the entries. We are only interested in entries where you have description of app hyphen one and the direction is in. So in total how many rules should be created? You have one rule. You have this two rule and that's about it. All right. Now since we have to iterate over data again here we can make use of for each. All right. Let's just remove the content over here. Now again based on the type of data, the approach that you have to use in foreach will also change. So here let's specify four. Now again note that this is not a simple list right. You have a key value pairs that are available. Now. Generally in such cases whenever you deal with data like maps and other similar data types, you also have index that is also available. So let's say for index and value in local dot CSV underscore decode what we want to output. We want to output say index. All right. You can always test it before you add it in the resource. So let's try it out I'll say TMP zero one. and you will add the exact expression here. Let's just comment it out. All right. Now at this stage, in fact, let's maximize this. Now since we are referencing this, what you can do, you can just use this index as value. All right I'll save this. And in the output I'll just add temp zero one. All right. Now if you'll clear the screen we'll do a Terraform plan. At this stage now you have the index and you have a map. So this is a unique key. So it will become easier to iterate through. So this looks fine. So I'll add it here. However before we do that as we know that we do not really want all of the entries, we only need certain entries. So what you can do within a year, you can add if. All right. If value. Let's specify value. Dot description equals to app hyphen one. Let's save this. We'll clear the screen I'll do a Terraform plan. Hopefully this should filter to app one entries only. And this time yes it is referencing to app one only. So this is one important part. Second is we only need indirection. We do not really need outbound direction. So what you can do you can add one more with and condition value dot direction equals to in. All right. So this time hopefully we should see in total of two entries and its associated data. And yes we have app one in, app one in. So this looks good. Now you can go ahead and copy this and add it in VPC security group ingress rule. All right. So this part by itself will filter the CSV data to only two necessary entries. Now what you can do the Cidr IPv4. Let's remove the comment the Cidr IPv4. You can say each dot value dot. Just see where exactly the IPv4 entry is. It is Cidr underscore block. So you can just specify like this from port. Just look into the port. You have only one port. So you can say each dot value dot port. Similarly in the two port as well. And in the protocol just verify. Again it is associated with protocol only. So you can copy this, you can add it and say protocol. All right. Now in the security group ID, we know that this specific ingress rule needs to be associated with app one hyphen SG. So you can either hard code it or you can just reference it. Because the security group has been created through this resource itself. So whatever approach you can quickly add as part of the solution, you can go ahead and do that. So for example you can copy this. Let's in fact copy the security group ID. From here we'll explore both the solution just for reference. So within here you can just specify something like this I'll save this. We'll do a Terraform plan to see if two security group rule resources are getting created. So now let's run the Terraform plan. And as expected, you have two VPC security group ingress rules that are getting created one for 82nd for 443. Now this is one approach. The second approach, just remember for reference is you can specify security group ID and now you can directly reference to the resource address here. Let's do that. So AWS security Group dot allow TLS. And now since we had referenced here in the for each we had referenced to a set what you can do within your you can specify the name here which is app one SC. All right. So this should also work. Now if I'll clear the screen let's do a Terraform plan. At this stage we are getting an error. Why. This specific part that we have added is object with 13 attributes. So one small thing for this we have to specify id because here it is security group ID. I'll save this. Now let's do a Terraform plan. And this time as expected we have two to add. And this part is not really required. So we'll just comment this out. We do not really need it. It was just for our testing. And also verify if it is the right security group ID 065D. So from here f one security again 065D. So this looks good. So the step one as part of the task five is completed. Let's look into the step number two. What it states use single AWS VPC security group egress rule. So this time we are dealing with outbound rule. So only a single resource block of this type should be used to create security group. Egress rule for app to SC security group. So now we are going to work with app to security group. But for this security group we are not dealing with inbound. This time we are dealing with outbound. And again for this also it states use for each and for expression to iterate over the contents of the CSV file. It is already mentioned. So let's search for the egress rule. I'll search here and we are not really getting it because there is a small typo. It should be egress. So anyways, I'll fix this by the time you try this out. So let's go ahead and explore this. Let's copy this base code. And similarly I'll add it over here. Now if you have designed this then this will become much more simpler. So let's do one thing. We'll remove the commented part here and the security group ID this time will directly copy paste. This time we are only interested in AP2 and similarly the cider from port IP protocol. Everything will remain to be same. So I'll just copy paste here. The difference here would be the for each part. So this for expression will differ. Let's copy this. We'll add it over here. And now what changes we have to make. First change that we have to make is let's see if description in CSV is app hyphen two rule must be associated with app hyphen two hyphen sg. So for app hyphen two over here how many entries are there one two and three. So let's add this. So if the description is app hyphen two. So this is one then it needs to be associated with app hyphen two 5.2 HD. This is already done. Then it says only consider the outbound rules. So now what? You can do the value dot direction. This time you can say it as out. So I'll just add it at out in total. Just verify how many entries are there out. One entry two entry. And that's it. Total two entries are there. Let's try it out I'll do a Terraform plan. Now we are looking for egress over here. So we are only getting ingress. So let's see why we are only getting two to add. So in CTF we have defined it. Mostly this is issue related to saving. Let's save this. Let's run the Terraform plan once again. And yes this time we are getting four to add. We are interested in egress. So you have the egress rule here. You can verify the port eight, four, four, three and 9000 and in the CSV file. Also you can check for egress on app two. Let's see you have 8443 and you have 9000. Great. So this part looks completed. What does the task six state. It states to create the necessary resources by running the Terraform apply with auto approve. So let's go ahead and do that I'll clear the screen. Let's run the Terraform apply here. That is great. Now once you have done that always verify in the security group also. So for app one SC we had created only inbound rules. So there should be two inbound rules that should appear here. And for app two hyphen SC we had created only the egress rules. So there should be two egress rule. If you see 9008 443 that is appearing and there are no ingress rules that are available here. All right. So again this task took some amount of time and we are completed till task number six. So let's see how many tasks are present. You have task seven, task eight, task nine, task ten and task 11. So let's complete with task number seven what it states create folder based on the following structure. So in the challenge five we already have the base folder and what it is stating. You have the infra folder inside infra you have VPC infra others. And then you have the modules folder VPC, EC2 and SG. So let's go ahead and do that. So in the challenge five folder how many folders are present. Here you have infra and you have modules. So let's do that. First we'll create Infra. Then we'll create modules. Inside infra you have VPC hyphen infra and others. So inside infra you have VPC hyphen infra and one more of others. Let's go back and inside modules you have three VPC, EC2 and SG. So inside modules you have VPC, you have SG and you have EC2. All right let's go back to Challenge Route directory. So this folder structure is created. And the task number eight is related to refactoring. So let's do one thing. We'll conclude this video as of now. And in the solution video part number three will start with task eight.