Eryone. And welcome to the part three of the solution video for challenge number five. Now at this stage we are at task number eight, which is to refactor the code. So let's explore what it states. Move the following resource types from base folder into VPC child module. So what are the resource type that we need to move. One is the aws VPC. Second is the AWS subnet. And we have to move it to child module folder of VPC. So let's go ahead and do that. So now what you can do in the Visual Studio we have just opened up the base folder. So let's close this and we'll open up the entire challenge file root folder with Visual Studio. So now within the modules VPC let's create a file called as vpc.tf. And within here we have to move the contents of AWS VPC. So you can check what are the resource types of AWS VPC and AWS underscore subnet. So let's do one thing. Since you also have the provider, we'll copy this AWS VPC and AWS subnet. So this constitutes to be the entire file. I'll move it over here and I'll save this. Just for simplicity from the exam perspective. Also personally I do not prefer to do a cut and paste. I prefer to just comment it. Or if you do not really want to comment because if there are multiple resources, take a backup. So in case if you mess things up, at least you have a backup from where you can get the base code again. Alright, this is very important. Just temporarily, I'll just comment things out and we have added here. This is one part. Second part is move the following resource types. AWS underscore instance to child module folder of EC2. So let's also do that. So for EC2 I'll just add a EC 2.tf and we have the EC two resource. I'll add it over here. Now in the base folder, one thing that I wanted to share, there was already a required providers with a specific version of provider. So generally you can just for safekeeping at the same provider because the resources are created using this specific provider. So we'll use the same one in the child module as well. And the third one is the security group and VPC security group. Star must go to the child module folder. So let's also do that. So in SC I'll create a new file of sc.tf. And this specific part we'll just comment it out. I'll copy this and I'll move it here. In fact, this part is something that we do not really need. Let's just clean things now. In fact, this is in the base folder. We are not interested in the base folder. Let's clean things that are not necessary. All right. Now one more thing here that needs to be noted is that for the security group we were referencing to the CSV file. So this is also something that you need to move at a later stage. For the time being we'll just ignore. We'll just move the basic resource types. So this marks the task eight to be completed. Let's look into the task number nine which states manually create a S3 bucket in your AWS account. So let's do that now. Since there are no specifications that are specified here, you can create S3 bucket with any name. So let's do one thing. Let's create a bucket I'll give a name, say KP labs TF Pro Challenge five. Let's fix the name. Now make sure that you use a different name because the bucket names are unique across all of the AWS accounts. Once you have done that, you can use the same US East one region. I'll go ahead and I'll create a bucket. Once the bucket is created, we'll just keep a note of this. So let's search. We'll keep a note of it. Now let's look into the next step which states in the infra VPC infra folder. So in the infra VPC infra folder. In this place call the VPC child module using module sources. So basically the VPC child module exists here. And from this place we have to call this. So let's go ahead and do that. Now in the infra VPC infra I'll create a file. Let's just call it as VPC. Hyphen Main.tf. And within here we'll make use of module sources. To call the appropriate module. So this would be this part. All right I'll save this. So this part is done. Second part states import existing VPC and subnet resources. Now at this stage, since the state file is not present when you try to do a Terraform plan, it will again recreate the entire resources that are specified in this vpc.tf, which we do not really want. So let's do one thing in the VPC infra folder from where we are calling the VPC child module. Let's open up the terminal. We'll do the Terraform init again and we'll run the Terraform plan. So ideally it will try to create the resources again as we are seeing it is trying to create because it does not really know No, because the state file is not present. So if you want to import the existing resources, let's do that. Now you can add the import blocks here itself. Or you can just create a separate file. I'll just call it as import.tf. And within here we have the basic format. You have the two and you have the ID. All right. Now in total you can check how many resources are getting created six. So you can just add six such blocks 345, six. Next you can just get the address from here you will just copy this and let's add it here. This is one. Then you have the second. Then you have the third. Then the fourth. Then the fifth. And the sixth. All right. Now you have to specify the ID. So there are two VPCs that were created. One is random and second one is main. Now again there are multiple ways. Let's look into both of them. So you can get the ID from here itself. So let's copy the VPC id I'll add it here the second one. I'll add it here. All right. This is one part. Now again in case if you have the previous state file that is available that will also work. It will make your life simple. Now we already have the state file in the base folder that is available. So now you can directly search the state file. So let's search AWS underscore subnet random subnet two. All right. So let's search for AWS subnet. This is the data which we do not really want. We are more interested in resources. So you have AWS underscore subnet challenge. Underscore five which is associated with the mean VPC. And you have subnet one. So let's do one thing. Whatever information that we find from here will directly add it here. So let's do one thing for the mean VPC the challenge five. You see you have the subnet challenge five subnet one. What is the ID associated with this. You can get it from here and add it here. Let's scroll down. Subnet two ID. You can get it from here. For the subnet two. You can add it here. Now comes the subnet random. Let's go a bit down. You have AWS subnet random. The index key is subnet one which is this part. And here let's copy the subnet ID we'll add it here and the index of subnet two. Let's copy the subnet ID we'll add it here. All right. So all of them is completed. Let's save this. So now when you do a Terraform plan hopefully there should be no change. And great you see zero to add zero to change zero to destroy six to import. So this part is completed partially. Why. Because we have not yet done the Terraform apply. So we have to actually import the resources. So let's do that as well. So I'll do a Terraform apply auto approve so that the state file gets created. Great. Now you can just close the state file from the base folder, and there should be a state file in the VPC infra folder. You see this is the state file and everything is imported. So now when you try to do a Terraform plan there should be no changes because everything is added as part of the state file as expected. Great. So this part is completed. Next is configure S3 backend where state file is stored in vpc.tf state file. And then you have to migrate local state to the S3 backend. So let's also try this out. So from the documentation in the configuration language you can search for S3 backend. Or let's just search for backend. We'll look into S3. So this is the example configuration. Let's copy this. And within the VPC infra Again you can add it here. It depends upon your choice. Just for simplicity just let's add it here only. Ideally it would be in a backend.tf file. Now what are the important configurations required here. One is the bucket. So we had already created a bucket in the previous step. So we'll just copy the bucket name and I'll add it here then is the key. So this is basically the exact path where the state file will be stored along with the name of state file. So here it states that the state file is stored in vpc.tf state. I'll copy this and I'll add it over here. This is the region of the S3 bucket. Since it is US East one, we don't really have to do any modification. I'll save this once this is done. Now if you try to do a terraform plan, it gives an error. Why? Because a new backend has been configured and initialization is required with Terraform in it. So now when you do a terraform init, it will ask you if you want to migrate the state. And the answer is yes. We want to migrate the state to S3 backend. All right. Once this is done, if you look into the terraform.tf state file in this folder, it is empty. And now if you open this specific S3 bucket, you see we have a vpc.tf state file that is present which contains the entire state. All right. So this marks the task nine to be completed. Let's look into the task number ten. What it states. Import EC2 and SG infrastructure in infra hyphen others folder. So let's go there in infra others folder here reference to the EC2 and SG child module using module sources. So let's do that part. So in infra others let's just call it as main.tf. We have to reference to both the EC2 and S3 module using module sources. So let's say module of EC2 source will specify EC2. And one more will specify S3. All right. Now use Terraform remote state to fetch the subnet id from vpc.tf state. Now at this stage what will happen is if you look into the child module of EC2, we have specified the data source over here. You see both of them have the data source. So now what it is stating. Use this specific remote state to fetch the subnet id from vpc.tf state file. So in order to do that let's open the documentation. We have to make use of Terraform remote state. And it states define Terraform remote state in root module only and not the child module. So first let's get the basic code associated with remote state. So this is how it looks like. I'll copy this. And since it states that it needs to be added in the root module, you can add it over here. Just for simplicity I'll add here. All right let's fill in these details. So bucket let's specify this bucket then is the key which is vpc.tf state. And the region will remain to be the same. The next part is to use this to fetch the subnet id from vpc.tf state file. So in such cases what needs to happen is in the VPC infra. You can in fact just verify the state file. Let's do a Terraform state pull. So if from other project you want to fetch certain values it needs to be added as part of the output values. All right. So at this stage in the outputs here you do not really have any value. So if you want to do that what you can do in the vpc.tf, you have to add the appropriate output values. So let's do that. I'll say output. And what is the requirement here. Let's also verify we just have to fetch the subnet IDs. This is fine. So I'll just specify subnet IDs. And in the value here we need the value associated with the AWS subnet challenge underscore five. So let's try this a AWS subnet dot challenge five dot. What is the attribute associated with. This is something that you'll have to verify. Let's try ID in fact since for each is used over here what you need to do just for simplicity here. Let's see. You can reference by subnet one. And you can add one more block for subnet two. Again, there are multiple ways I'm just using the simple approach. Let's see if this works. So let's do a Terraform plan. We are not really getting an error. This is good. Now we have to make sure that this subnet IDs are part of the state file for VPC. So now what you can do. Let's close this in the VPC infra you can add a output values. Let's just call it as subnet IDs and value. Here would be module dot VPC dot subnet underscore id. So this is the name of output values in the child module. Now when you do a Terraform plan these are the subnet IDs. This is good. We'll go ahead and we'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve so that this gets committed in the state file in the S3 backend. Great. Once this is done you can just do a quick terraform state pull verify if in the outputs you are able to see the subnet IDs. Let's see that. So this part right in the output subnet ID. So once you have this it will become easier to reference it through other projects using the Terraform remote state. So now coming back here we are at this stage to use Terraform remote state to fetch the subnet ids from vpc.tf state file. So let's close this in others. What we have to do because this is referencing to the EC2 within here. Earlier we had made use of data source. But now we cannot make use of data source because we have not really added it here. So now, since this specific part is defined outside, it is not in the child module. What you need to do within here you can just say var dot subnet underscore IDs. All right. Let's just define a sample variable subnet underscore IDs. And the value of this you can feed in through the root module. So in the root module you can say subnet underscore IDs. And now you can reference to this data Terraform remote state network dot outputs. Now you can just verify in the outputs you have subnet underscore IDs. So you can just specify it over here. And again what you can do you can just say two set. And save this. All right. Now before we explore the sea. Let's see if this works. All right. Let's see if EC2 works. So in the infra others folder I'll open up the terminal. We'll do the terraform init. Once again we'll do the Terraform plan if things are working. Total of two EC2 instances it will try to create. However, at this time we are getting an error of invalid bucket name. So let's verify. All right so this is something. Let's fix this. Let's do Terraform plan once again as expected two to add. And if the Terraform remote state is working correctly it will automatically fetch the ID 7921 and 3E8. You can verify this with the output of the VPC 3E8 and 7921. Great. So this specific part is working perfectly well. Now the next part it states import existing EC2 and security group resource so that new ones are not created. So let's also do that. So I'll create a file called as import.tf for EC2 instance. Let's specify the basic format. So two EC2 instance are getting created. We'll fix this. Let's copy the first EC2 instance. Let's add second one. Let's add it here. And now you can specify the id again the ID part. You can get it from the tf state file as well in case if you would like. Otherwise you can also get it from the AWS console. Let's go to instances. Let's open one of the instance. Just verify which subnet this instance belongs to. It belongs to 3E8. So I'll copy the instance id so 3E8 is this one. I'll add it here. And 2921. The second instance ID you can check networking 2921. We'll add it over here I'll save this. Great. Once this is done let's do a Terraform plan. Hopefully this time it will show zero to create and two to import. So two to import, zero to add, zero to change. This is good. We'll go ahead and will populate our state file at this stage. So the EC2 instance has been successfully imported. The next one is SG. So let's go ahead and also uncomment it. And we'll do the Terraform plan. At this stage this module is not yet installed. That is fine. I'll do the terraform in it. Will? Oops, we ran the terraform in it again. Let's do terraform plan. We are getting error manage resource AWS VPC main has not been declared. Now for this let's explore the S3 module. Now within here we had a reference to this address. But we have refactored the configuration. So again there are multiple ways. One way is you can hard code the VPC ID. Second way is you can get it from the TF state file, which is the vpc.tf state file from different project. But in that case you will have to again define the new outputs. Now, since the question does not really state to fetch the VPC id from vpc.tf state file, we will keep it simple. We'll directly hard code the VPC id. Here. All right Alright. I'll hard code it. Let's see if there are any other places where it is required. It is not. I'll save this. Now let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan. Let's see if there are two errors. And this time we do not have two errors. Now you only have one error on line 14. Basically it is not able to locate the SG dot csv file. This is as expected because we are referencing to the SC dot csv file. So we need the csv file to be moved. Now the question is where do you need to move this CSV file? Do you have to add it in the SC folder which is the child module or in the root module? In fact let's try this also. So the SC dot csv file. Let's try to add it in the child module to see if it works. So we'll do a Terraform plan once again. And you see it is still giving an error. So if this child module is being called by a root module. Then whatever file that is being referenced, it needs to be added as part of the root module. So I'll just cut it. And in the infra others I'll add the file here. And now we'll do the Terraform plan. And we are not really getting error. The only thing is six resources are being created. So you know the solution. We have to import them as well. So let's do that in the import.tf. Let's define the base two and id and we have to define it in total of six times. All right. So once you have defined it six times next is to get the address. So let's copy this. Let's add it here. And the last one is this. All right. So let's start with the first one. So first two are the security group. So security group you can directly fetch the ID from here. So the app one security group ID just copy from here and add it here. Then you have the app two. Great. So this is done. Now is the egress rule one. So now just for simplicity for this what you can do. Let's search this in the older state file of the base folder. It will become simpler. All right. So egress rule index key of one. So this is what we are referencing to. And this is the rule ID. Then you have egress with index key of three. This is index key of three. Let's copy this. All right. Now is the ingress rule. Index key of zero. So this is index key of zero and index key of two. This is index key of two. Great. So this part looks completed. Let's verify. We'll run the Terraform plan. So this time we have six to import. This looks good. We'll run the Terraform, apply with auto approve so that the state file gets populated. Great. So six resources have been imported. And this marks the task number ten finally to be completed. So last task here is to destroy the infrastructure that was created as part of this challenge. So here first thing you have to delete the EC2 and S3 infrastructure because ultimately they are created inside the custom VPCs. So let's do that. So EC2 and S3 anyways they are defined in infra others. So we'll do terraform destroy with auto approve here. So this is the first step. And once you have done this then you can go ahead and destroy the VPC and subnet related infrastructure. So let's quickly wait for a moment here Arthur. All right. So this part is completed. Now let's go back to the VPC infra. And here also we'll go ahead and do a destroy. And once this is done the last part is we had also created this S3 bucket. So let's also go ahead and destroy this. So first I'll empty this bucket. Let's just add this. And once the status is empty we'll go ahead and destroy this bucket as well. Great. So this marks the challenge number five to be completed. Again, a little lengthy, but very useful in terms of getting a decent hands on before you sit for the exams. So with this, we'll conclude today's video.