Hi everyone, and welcome back to challenge number six. So let's get started. Now in this challenge also you have a base task. And in this base task it is giving you information about some of the important resources that are part of the base folder. And it is asking us to navigate to the base folder and run the Terraform apply with auto approve. So within our main challenges folder we'll go to challenge number six. We have a base folder here. Let's go ahead and open this with terminal. We'll do a Terraform init. And once this is done we'll copy this specific command. Let's clear the screen I will go ahead and deploy the resources that are created as part of this folder. All right. So multiple set of resources are being created here. Great. At this stage you can go ahead and also look into the actual code. But we'll skip it for the time being and whenever it is required, we will come back and will review the code in this base folder. So now let's go to the task one which states build the AWS config file, and it is asking us to create three profiles in the AWS config file with the following names. Read only access IAM access EC2 access. So let's go to challenge number six. There is already a dot AWS folder that is available. Let's open the entire directory with Visual Studio Code. And within here we have the base folder. Here within here I'll create a file called as config. And within this we'll have three different profiles. First one is read only access. All right let's copy this three times. Second is IAM access. And the third is easy to access. Then it is stating all the three profiles should have the following configuration. Migration region is equal to US East one. Output equals to text. So let's copy this and I'll add this for all of the three profiles here. Great. Now the next part is the IAM access profile which is. This one should assume the IAM full access IAM role created from the base folder. So in the base folder there is a IAM full access role that was created which provides full access to IAM service. So it wants this specific profile to assume this role. Then EC2 access profile should assume the EC2 access IAM role and read only access profile should use the read only access IAM role. Now if you would have looked into the output after Terraform, apply the Arn of the role of EC2 full access IAM full access and read only role is already available. We'll copy this directly and within here we'll add role underscore Arn for all three of them. And now let's copy the first one. So it should go here. Second one is the IAM full access. It will go here. Third one is the read only and it will go here. All right so this is created. Now it is asking us to also build the AWS credentials file. And it says that this specific file must have credentials associated with only two profiles in the following format the IAM access key profile and the EC2 access profile. So let's copy this and let's create a file called as credentials. And we'll add the contents over here. And now what it says the access secret key for the IAM access profile should be fetched from IAM username key labs IAM user created from the base folder. Now let's do one thing from the base folder. Let's look into this. So there is a copy labs IAM user over here. So the accident secret key associated with this user should be used. Now if you will see this base.tf also has the aws IAM access key and within. Here it is referencing to IAM underscore user. So this part is creating the access key associated with this resource. So let's go ahead and search it from the state file. So I'll open up the state file will search for this. So this is the default user access key the EC2 user access key and the IAM user access key. So first let's go ahead and copy the access key associated with IAM user. And let's just verify the KP labs IAM user access key should be associated with IAM access profile. So let's go ahead and do that. I'll add this here and the secret access key also I'll add it here similarly for the easy to access profile here, you should fetch the access secret key associated with KP labs EC2 user. In fact, this was already available, so this user was associated with IAM user. You also had the KP labs EC2 user. So just verify this was the KP labs IAM user. This is the KP labs EC2 user here. So let's copy the access key and build our credentials file as well. Great. Now this task clearly states that this credentials file must have credentials associated with only two profile. Alright, so no other credentials should be mentioned as part of this file. Now let's go to task number three. What it says the read only access profile, which is this specific profile here, should only use credentials associated with the default profile to assume the necessary role. You cannot add default profile in the AWS config or the AWS credentials file of the challenge six folder. So in here. Basically in this file you cannot add the default profile, nor you can add the credentials associated with the default profile here. And the default profile credentials are present in a file named default hyphen creds dot txt in the base folder. So let's also verify. In the base folder there is a file called as default hyphen creds dot txt which has this specific credentials. So let's do one thing. At this stage. Let's go ahead and complete this specific path. Because these two are more of a information kind of points. So since it states that read only access should only use the default credentials, just for simplicity, let's add source Arn equals to default. Let's go to task number four, which states that the AWS IAM role resource type must use the IAM access profile. So in the challenge six over here you have multiple resources created like security group. You have a data source. You have AWS IAM role. So it is stating IAM role must use this specific profile only. So in order to make use of this, what you'll have to do, you will have to add the shared credentials so that it references to this specific file. Now at this stage from our registry, let's go ahead and fetch the base code of shared config and credentials file. So I'll copy this. Let's add it here. We'll simply remove this part since the AWS folder is in the same directory and the name of the file is config and credentials. So what does the task states? IAM role should use IAM access profile. So this specific one is associated with the IAM access profile. So what I'll do I'll just specify the name of the profile here. Alright. And I'll also add an alias. Let's call it IAM hyphen access. And then in this role I'll add a provider meta argument of AWS dot IAM hyphen access. Alright so this will go ahead and use this provider block. Then the second is AWS security group. Resource type must use the EC2 access profile. So in a similar way you can just add one more profile block here. Let's just call it as EC2 access. Make sure that the naming is correct. And here also let's call it as EC2 access. And again within here we'll add a provider meta argument of EC2 hyphen access. I'll save this. The last one the AWS Color Identity Data Source, should use the information mentioned in the read only access profile to make requests to AWS. Now, the issue is that since you have a source, are and equals to default and the default credentials are part of this file. Default hyphen creds dot txt. Now there are multiple ways in which you can solve this issue. One of the easiest way, since it uses that, it must use the information that is mentioned in this specific profile. So what we can do, we can use the information that is mentioned in this specific profile to create a provider block here. Alright. So let's use this approach. So I'll add a provider block here. I'll not really use all of this. Alright. We'll keep it very simple. We'll use the information that is mentioned here to build our provider block. So let's do one thing. First important information is the role Arn. So from the Documentation. You can just search for assume role and you have this. I'll copy this and will add it here. Let's just align things. Alright. So in the role Arn I'll just copy this specific Arn. In the session name I'll just use any random session external ID is not required. Now the next part is that it needs the credentials. So what you can do you have the default credentials that are present here. You can add it as part of this provider block only. So in order to do that let's look into the documentation on how you can add access. Secret key I'll copy this. We'll add it here. And this specific access secret key. We can manually copy paste. So that all the information is added as part of this provider block only over here and alias. Let's just call it as read only. All right. And the data source must use this. So we'll say provider of read only. AWS dot read only. All right so this looks good. All right. Next task is to run Terraform apply to ensure all the resources are created successfully. So let's verify now in the challenge number six first thing that I'll do is run the Terraform init. And at this stage we are getting error on the line 29. So let's verify this. So at this stage in fact let's look into the entire error. So you have a duplicate provider configuration. You have alias of read only unsuitable value type. So in such cases you can also directly verify from the documentation on how alias is defined. So in fact you can just add a provider meta argument and alias should look something like this. So it is a quoted string here. So let's do that for all. Let's save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll run terraform init again. And this time we are not really getting any error related to that. All right. So now we are getting error. Failed to query available provider packages. It is not able to retrieve this one from registry. Terraform IO. So let's see if we have made a mistake because this is associated with a provider. So let's search for EC2 access. All right. So this is where the mistake happened. It should be AWS dot EC2 hyphen access. All right let's do a terraform init again. And it looks good. We'll do a terraform plan. We are not really getting any error. So in total of two resources are getting created. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve. And grit the apply has been completed. The next step it is asking us to remove. Deprecated related warning. Remove any deprecated warning that you might see as part of code slash output. Now if you see there is a warning stating argument is deprecated. It is associated with this managed policy. Let's copy this within. Here I'll search for managed policy Arns. So this is the line where the error is coming from. So we have to remove this deprecated warning. So within here what it is stating manage policy are in argument is deprecated. This is what we know. Use the aws IAM role policy attachment resource instead. All right. So let's do one thing. Let's copy this. So basically before we look into the solution let's see what exactly it is doing. So it is creating a IAM role called as CloudWatch Full Access. And then it is associating this specific managed policy to this role. All right. So in fact let me also quickly show you. So if I copy this and from the IAM console let's go to roles. We'll search for this if I open this role. So once the role is created this specific managed policy is been associated with this role. Now when you search for this from the documentation let's say AWS underscore IAM underscore role. Let's look into it. So within here as we are seeing managed policy Arn is what we have been using. And here it is asking us to use AWS IAM role policy attachment. So lets search for role policy attachment here. This one what it does. Attaches a managed IAM policy to the IAM role. So ultimately it is doing the same thing. So let's go ahead and copy this and we'll add it here. So within your first thing we have to add a role. So let's copy this part and I'll add here. And then is the policy Arn. So this policy ah and let's see if it expects a list or something. It just mentions the Arn of the policy you want to apply. So that is fine. So I'll copy this. Let's add it here and we'll remove it from here. Ideally from exam perspective you can refrain from removing. You can just comment it out I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. So you have one to create. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply auto approve. Great. So that completes the task number six. Task number seven is to destroy all the infrastructure that is created as part of this lab. So for this first we'll go ahead and do a Terraform destroy with auto approve for the resources that are created as part of challenge number six. And the next step would be to run this command as part of the base folder. Once this is done, you can also go to the base folder and run the same Terraform destroy command. Great. So that's a quick overview about the challenge number six. And with this we will conclude today's video.