Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the code level scanning and plan level scanning. Now, whenever you are working in an organization, you will require both code scanning and plan scanning at different stages of the overall life cycle. So with this said, let's get started and understand the difference between both of them. Now at this stage, we are already aware about the basics of static analysis tool and how it can review the code that you have supplied to the tool, and based on that, it will give you certain pass or fail result here. For example, if you look into the screenshot, there is a access and secret key that is associated with the code. So when static analysis tool like Checkov will scan the code, it will give you an alert stating there is a access key and a secret key, and you have the field checks that are happening. So this is simple thing and we have already discussed this in the earlier videos. Now the interesting part of many static analysis tool is that they support both the code level scan and the plan level scan. So what is a code level scan? So in the earlier slide we were discussing where you provide a code file that Chekhov or any static analysis tool will review the code and it will give you a pass or fail result. So this is a simple example of code level scan. Now you also have one more type of scan called as plan level scan. Now again the question that comes is code level scan seems to be quite good enough. Why do you need a plan level scan? Let's understand this in detail. Now we are going to take a simple use case associated with a firewall rule. Now at this stage, note that Chekhov can detect if important port like 22 have 0000 allowed. If it is allowed then you will get this failed result primarily because port of 22 should not have this allowed. It is a security risk. So if you look into this code where you have port 22 allowed for 0000, Chekhov is immediately giving you a failed check here stating that this is something that should not happen. Now again, this is a code level scan. However, there are instances where a user can intentionally modify the Terraform code so that these set of checks cannot detect the issues as part of the code. Let's go ahead and quickly understand this. Now for today's demo I have a file called as my Sgtf. If you look into this sample file here a very simple file. What it does, it creates a security group. And there is a security ingress rule with a port of 22. And you have 0000. So as we already know, Checkov can detect that this is something which is not a good practice and it should alert us. So when you quickly do a check off on this specific file, in fact, let's do that. It has given us certain failed result, the one that we are primarily interested in. So again, ensure that security group rule has discretion. So all of this will currently avoid the one that we are interested is this one, which is ensure no security. Group ingress allows access from 0000 to port 22. Now, in fact, just to clean the output, let's clear the screen. You can just do a check off with file name and hyphen. Hyphen check followed by the value. Again, at this stage, this is the value in your case. If they change the value, you have to modify it accordingly. So now we are only getting this one check here which is getting failed. Now as we are discussing this is one of the important check and it is good that Chekov is able to detect the issues. However, there are ways in which this set of checks can be bypassed. Let's look into it. So, discussing about bypassing the check, there are multiple small modification that you can do as part of your code. And after we have done the modification, the static analysis tool just by reviewing the code will not be able to detect the issues here. For example, in this screenshot, what we have done, we have specified the Cidr IPv4 block as a variable and this is the variable that is specified. However, at this stage, no value associated with the variable has been given as part of the code. So now what will happen when Checkov will test it? It will verify if 000 is mentioned. Since it is not mentioned, the overall check will pass. So let's also quickly look into it. Now let's go ahead and modify the code that we have. So instead of the Cidr block that we have specified with a static value you can just say var dot any name. Let's just call it as VPN underscore IP. And apart from that you can just give a variable definition here I'll say variable of VPN underscore IP. And that's about it. So at this stage just by reviewing the code again even if we manually review the code, we do not really see any security issues because 0000 is not really mentioned. All right. Now let's also go ahead and verify with Checkov. In fact, you can use the same check that we had used last time for quick analysis. Again, make sure that in your case this might be different. So at this stage our check have passed. Now what a user can do with a Terraform plan. He can manually specify with the var option the value associated with the variable. So let's quickly try that out. I'll say VPN underscore IP is equal to 00000 and I'll press enter. So now what has happened. The actual resource that gets created in the production environment associated with that resource. The port 22 will have 0000 open. And this is something that you do not really want. So this is the reason why when you use static analysis tools like Checkov to scan your code, there are many instances where it will not be able to detect critical security issues that you might have left open when the deployment actually takes place. And this is the reason why it is very important that static analysis tool can also look into the plan. Because now since at a plan stage, we have finally realized that the terraform that is creating the infrastructure is using 0000 at port 22. So this is the reason why it is also important to go ahead and scan for the values that are being calculated at a plan stage. And this is where the plan level scans comes into picture. One of the great benefits of Checkov is that it can also do plan level scanning. And this gives us great amount of flexibility. So let's do one thing. Let's also go ahead and try this out practically now in order for plan level scans to work through checkoff. There are a few important steps that you have to remember. First one is that you have to save the plan. For example, if you are running a terraform plan something similar to this, then this is the output that you are getting. Now this output you can manually review. However, checkoff does not really require this output. For checkoff. To support plan level scanning, you will need to supply it with a little different method. So this method states that first step that you need to do is you have to save a plan to a file. So we'll do a Terraform plan with hyphen out option. And let's just call it as TF plan dot binary. So at this stage you see it is asking for the VPN IP value. Let's just give it as 00000 and I'll press enter. So at this stage our plan file has been saved. So if I clear the screen and if I do a LZ, you should see that you have a TF plan dot binary. Now if you just do a cat on TF plan dot binary, you see this is how the output really looks like. Now if you provide this kind of output then checkout will not really work. So you need to provide a much more better, cleaner output for the checkoff tool to work. So in order to do that you can do a Terraform show. You can specify JSON followed by the TF plan dot binary. Let's see how the output really looks like. It looks like this. So now one more thing that you can do. You can use the JQ tool. Now what will happen if you use JQ. Let's quickly see the output now. So you see this output is much more easier to read. So now we'll use the same tool and we'll store the output to a file called as colors. TTF plan. Dot JSON. All right. Now if you open up the TTF plan dot JSON, this is how the output really looks like. And this is the output that you can supply it to Chekhov. And based on this Chekhov can go ahead and verify for security related issues. So now the overall command looks something similar to the one that we had used, which is Chekhov, followed by TTF plan dot JSON. And based on this it will go ahead and give us the appropriate pass fail results. All right. And if you see it was able to detect that there is A0000 added as part of port 22 year. Now, one more important part to remember here is that after Chekhov has ensured that your TTF plan is passing all the checks, then in such case, you have to ensure that whenever you do a terraform apply, you apply from the plan file that you have created. This is very important. Otherwise you cannot guarantee that the infrastructure that you have specified as part of the TF plan and that has been reviewed by Checkov, will be the actual infrastructure that will be created. All right. This is one part to remember. Now, one more thing that I wanted to ensure before we conclude this video is associated with the custom policies in Checkov. Now generally, when we had saved the plan to a JSON file, this plan contains a lot of information. One of the important information is that it also contains what kind of action Terraform is trying to perform. For example, is it trying to create? Is it trying to update a resource? Is it trying to destroy the resource and so on. So based on wide variety of values here you can write custom set of rules as part of Checkov. So many times what happens is whatever rules that are added as part of Checkov the default rules, these are not always enough for a wide variety of organization. You might want to write your own set of rules. So this flexibility that we were discussing is achieved using the custom policy in Chekhov. Great. So that's a high level overview about the code level scan and plan level scan. Now again, depending upon the organization that you are using, both of these are individually used. So for example code level scan can be used as soon as someone is committing the code as part of the GitHub repository so that Chekhov can immediately scan if everything is good or not. If not, then the developer can improve upon it. So even you can use Chekhov as part of your local workstation. So before committing anything to GitHub, you can use the code level scan to ensure that there are no issues as part of your code. And then the plan level scan will be the final scan that will happen as part of your automation pipeline or a CI CD pipeline before the actual deployment happens for your infrastructure. So with this, we'll conclude today's video.