Here you are. And welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number seven. So let's get started. So if you look into the task here the first thing that it states that all values must be fetched dynamically from the EC two dot CSV file. So if you will see there is also an EC two dot csv file that is available as part of this challenge, and it states avoid hard coding any values from CSV in output values. So with this base instruction set, let's look into the task number one, which states that create a local value that reads and fetches all data from EC two dot csv file. Now from our main TF Pro Challenges folder, let's open up challenge number seven and let's open this entire folder with code. Now if you'll quickly explore the EC two dot csv file, it contains certain information like instance, type, Ahmed, region, and team name. This is fine. Let's go ahead and create a file called as challenge hyphen 7.tf. And first thing that we need is that using the local value, we have to fetch all of the data from the CSV file. So let's go ahead and do that. So I'll add locals here and within here let's say all data. And since this is a CSV file we'll use a CSV decode function followed by the file function to go ahead and fetch the data from EC2 dot CSV. All right. Now once this is done, just to verify if everything is working again, this is not expected as part of task, but you can just add all data and value. You can just say local dot all underscore data to verify if this part is working. Now from challenge number seven I'll open this up with terminal. Will go ahead and we'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve And as expected, at this stage we are getting all of the data that is part of the CSV file. Great. So once this is done, I will just remove it because it is not required. Let's save this. The next part is output a list of army IDs from the CSV file. So it is asking us to create an output value name list that dynamically generate a list of all Army IDs that are present in the CSV file. There is also a reference final output that it is showing to us. So we need to create output values that fetches data and looks something similar to this reference. Final output. Now just verify. In the EC two dot csv there is an Army underscore ID. So these are the Army IDs that you want to fetch and added it as part of the list. The name of list is list underscore Army. So let's go ahead and try it out. I'll say output the name of output value here. And within. Here we have to fetch the list of Amis so you can create a for data in local dot all underscore data what you want. Data dot this part a my underscore id I'll save this. Once this is done you can just verify. So this is how it looks like. So in total there are four Ami IDs. Great. So task number two it's completed. Task number three it states output a unique list of team names from CSV. And this is how the output looks like. Now if you look into the CSV file there are in total of four entries. And you have security, SRE, DevOps and SRE again. So first let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and output the team name. Just for simplicity. I'll add it over here and the name of the output value. Let's see. This is the name of output value. So let's add it over here. Let's save this. Now just for simplicity, I'll just comment out the previous one so that our output is truncated. We just want to focus on the current one that we are building. And at a later stage you can just remove the comment. Alright, let's clear the screen. We'll do a terraform apply. Now at this stage in the output, this is the part that has been added security, SRE, DevOps and SRE. Now what is required here is that unique list of team names must be present. So in the output which is a reference output, there are three team names DevOps, SRE and security. And here you have DevOps two times SRE one times security. So since unique names are required and this is a list, the solution is simple. You can just use a two set. Alright, again there are other ways also. Now if you do a terraform apply, you have DevOps, SRE and security. You can also decide to use distinct function here. And again you have security. You have SRE you have DevOps. Now again since here you have DevOps first SRE second security third. We'll just change it to two set. Let's run this. We have DevOps, SRE and security. Similar to the reference output here, the task number four is to output a list of lists from a region. So this is the name of output value. And what you want is each region name that is part of the CSV file must be added in its individual list. So let's also go ahead and try it out. So I'll just move this comment here. Let's go ahead and copy this name. I'll add it here. And first, let's go ahead and fetch the value associated with region. All right. So this is what it is. Let's add it here. At this stage when we do a terraform apply what will happen. The data of all regions will be added. So for example when you do a Terraform plan this is how it looks like. You have us East one AP South one US East one AP southeast one. In total there are four regions, and even here you have in total of four regions. Now the only difference here is that each region that you see over here is in its own set of list. So this is the main list here. And inside the main list you have multiple set of list. So what you can do this specific part. You can add it in a list. All right. So what will happen is for each iteration you will have a list. And this part will be computed. All right. So when you do a Terraform plan you see you have your main list. And inside the main list you have multiple sets of lists that is available. So this completes the task number four. The task number five is output a filtered list of list based on condition. So here you have to create an output value with this name. Let's do this first I'll copy this. Let's bring the comment here. Let's copy this part I'll replace it here. So what it states create this specific output value that contains a list of list. So this is already understood but only include rows where instance type is nano. So if you look into EC2, csv you have an instance type micro nano nano micro. So in total there are two instance types here with the value of nano. And this is the reason why you have two entries also with the value of AP South one. US East one associated with instance type of nano. So the overall solution will be easy because you have already learned on how to build a list of list within. Here you can just add a if condition. If this part instance underscore type equals to nano. Alright, let's save this. I'll clear the screen. We'll do a terraform plan. At this stage we are getting an error. Why? Because here it should be data dot instance underscore type. Let's verify. And yes. So in the output here we are getting AP South one and US East one. Just verify AP South one US East one. Great. So this completes task number five. Task number six states that map that contains total number of instance types. So this is the output value. So this output value generates a map displaying the count of each instance type in the CSV file, and this is how the output looks like, which is micro and nano. Now if you look into the CSV file, you only have two instance type micro, nano, nano and micro. And it is also showing you that you have to add a count like how many entries have this specific instance type? How many entries are there that has nano instance type. All right. So there are two separate things that are required here. So let's go ahead and do one thing. First. We'll go ahead and build this specific part. And then we'll build this specific part. So let's go ahead and first build the first part I'll add in local I'll say instance type equals to I'll use the similar logic. Let's add it here. Data dot instance type. All right. Let's also create an output value. The name here is instance count by type. So let's go ahead and add it here. And just for simplicity I'll say local dot instance underscore type. So this is what we have built. Now in the output we are going to get four entries. So let's verify I'll do a Terraform plan. As expected we are getting four entry micro nano nano micro. Now we know that we only need two entries here which are unique. So to build a unique entry you can again either make use of distinct or two set. So let's go ahead and use a two set here I'll save this. And you do a Terraform plan this time. You see we are only getting two entries micro and nano. So the first part is built over here. So this part is built. The next part is this. So based on this entries. How many are there? This value should be computed accordingly. So this is where the length function can come into picture. The benefit of length function is that it works with a list. It works with a map and it works with a string. So let's go ahead and modify this. Now since map is required we'll say for data in not this specific part, we are looking for this specific part. All right. For data in local dot instance underscore type. And we output data. Now since a map is required what we are going to do we'll iterate this part because we have to iterate it for all of the four entries. Since we are going to use a length function, then it needs to iterate through all the entries, otherwise it will not be able to count it properly. So we can make use of length function here. And now you have to iterate it over all of the entries as part of this file. So now you can say for value in local dot this specific part. Local dot all underscore data. In fact let's maximize this. And I'll add value. All right. Let's see if this works. Let's clear the screen I'll do terraform plan. At this stage we are getting error related to function name. So let's fix this. All right. Let's see if this works. So at this stage the issue is that you are getting four. We know four is the number of entries. So at this stage it is just calculating total entries as part of the CSV file. And then it is computing it with the appropriate type. However good thing is that this part here is fixed. so micro and nano is fixed only this part needs to be improved upon. So now what you can do. You can add a if condition if value let's say value dot what value we are looking for. Instance type equals to this specific part. All right. Now just to reference that data part is referencing to only this micro and nano. So you can say equals to data. All right. So this data that you see over here is this one. All right let's see if this works. And yes this time we have micro equals to two. Nano equals to two. So just to test things out, if you add one more entry of say micro at the last and you run Terraform plan this time micro is three. Nano is two. All right. So I'll just is, remove and revert back to the original content of file and I'll save this. Great. So the task number six is also completed. Task number seven is list of maps. So here what is required. You have the output as instance underscore detail which is a list. So outer part is a list. And then you have a map. And each map contains only two attributes here team and type. And same is reference in this task where you only need to reference team and type. So let's go ahead and try it out. So let's go back. Let's use the earlier one as a reference. Let's comment out the previous one. First. Let's add a new name here which is instance details. All right. So this part remains to be the same since we require the list over here. This part will remain to be the same. The right part will change. So for data in local dot all underscore data, the next part we need is a map. So we'll build a map here. And in the map what we require only two attributes here the team name and the instance type. So this part let's say team and type. And within here you can say data dot the team name. And in the type data dot the instance type. All right. So let's save this. Let's run Terraform plan. At this stage you see total of four entries 123 and four. Great. So task number seven is also completed. The tasks number eight is map of map. So this is how the output really looks like. Let's read it. Output a map of map where each unique key. So unique key in map is this part. So this is a unique key associated with the map. So each unique key contains combination of instance type. So this is the instance type. Then you have a region and team name. So combination of instance type region and the team name. And they are separated by this underscore over here. All right. The attribute for each map must be similar to the one shown in the reference output. So let's go ahead and try it out. So let's comment out the previous one. Let's create a output map of maps value equals to. Let's look into the output. It is a map of map. So let's also include that. So we'll say for data in local dot this part. Local dot all underscore data. What we need first we need is this specific combination. So again this in order to get this specific unique combination here. Let's do that. So in this we'll say. Instance underscore type data dot instance underscore type followed by underscore. Then you have the region. Data dot. Region. Again you have to have underscore data dot. Let's verify the last part is the team name. So let's copy this. Let's add it here. All right. And since we have defined a map, the next part what we need is the Army id instance type region and team name. So since there are four entries each entry is associated with this. All right three four. So let's build that. So you have army ID instance type region and team name. Let's go ahead and build that I'll say Army ID. You have instance type. You have region and you have team name. All right. So let's go ahead and add the appropriate details here. So Army ID will say data dot This one. Instance type is data dot instance type here. Again, since this is not a string, we'll just remove this. It is not really required. Region is data dot. Let's find it out. Region and team name is data dot. Team name. Now here we are getting an error. Why? Because just let's specify this. So you have one. You have two, you have one. You have two. And you have to close the outer part here. Alright let's see where the issue lies. All right. So this part let's just enclose it in coated string. All right. And let's save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. And this time we get output. Let's verify it. Micro AP southeast one, Sri micro, US East one. Security. Let's verify. Micro AP southeast one Sri micro, US East one security. This looks good. You have 170 D2D you have 170 D2D. All right. So once you have tested it what you can do is remove the comment associated with all of the output values. Let's save this. We'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve. And this is the final output. And the same output you will also see as part of the state file. All right. So this marks the completion of challenge number seven. And with this we will conclude today's video.