Harrigan and welcome to the solution video associated with challenge number eight. So let's get started now in the task number one, what it states create base resources. Navigate to the base folder and run the Terraform. Apply with auto approve. So let's do that before we read the further instructions. Now from our Main.tf Pro Challenges folder I'll go to challenge number eight. There is a base folder. And within here we have a main.tf file. Let's open this up with terminal. And first let's go ahead and do Terraform init. So required provider plugins are available. And then we can do a Terraform apply with auto approve. So from here we can see that it is creating certain resources like VPCs and subnets. All right. So once this is created let's read the further instructions. So what it states as part of this base task following three subnets are created in central VPC app subnet. Database subnet and central subnet. Now you can also go ahead and verify it. So in the North Virginia region you can go to VPCs within your if you will see that we have a central VPC that is available and associated with the central VPC. If we filter there are three subnets. Central subnet database subnet and app subnet. So this is the description that has been provided here. This is fine. Let's look into task number two. What it states define a data source. Create a file name data source.tf in the root folder. Let's do this first. So let's go back to the root challenge eight folder within your. I'll open this with vs code and within here I'll go ahead and let's create challenge hyphen 8.tf. This is where our main challenge code will be present. However, this time the challenge has asked us to create a file called as data source.tf. Now within here, the second task is define a data source to fetch the Cidr block associated with all three subnets created in the base task. Now, as we know, these are the three subnets that we have created. So it is asking us to use data source to fetch the Cidr block associated with all of these three subnets. So this is where our data source of AWS subnet will come into picture. So let's take a basic example here of data AWS subnet I'll copy this and let's go ahead and add it three times. Since in total there are three subnets that are available. The next important part is will also use the VPC id. So let's also go ahead and specify the VPC id. Let's go ahead and fetch the VPC id. We'll copy this specific part. Or you can also get it from here. and will add it here. All right. So that overall search gets narrowed down. Great. Now since there are three subnets that we have to fetch the data for, let's also go ahead and add a name accordingly. And then in the tag values you can just verify what is the value associated with the tag. You will typically see it here. Name value is central subnet. So in the central you can just add central hyphen subnet. In database you can copy the value from here. And in the app. Let's copy this value and add it over here. All right. Now once you have done that from the challenge. Number eight. Let's open up the terminal. Let's go ahead and do a terraform init. And now we'll also go ahead and do a Terraform plan to ensure that the Cidr blocks can be fetched based on the filters. So reading is completed. This looks good. Now we can also go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply auto approve so that the data gets stored as part of the state file. Great. Now if you will see the terraform.tf state file you can just verify the first part which is the app subnet over here is ten 010 24. So you can just verify this app. Subnet over here has ten 010 24. Then database is ten 020 and central is ten 030. You can also verify let's go a bit down. Central is ten 030 and database is ten 020. Alright, this is the database one. Great. So task number two is partially completed. The last part here is display the fetched subnet IDs as output values named subnet underscore IDs along with the name of the subnets. So basically you have to output the subnet IDs. Now if you will see each subnet has the associated subnet ID. So you need to output that. Let's also go ahead and do that I'll say output subnet IDs in the value since it states that display the fetch subnet ids as output values. Name subnet ID along with the name of subnets. Now the name of subnet. In total there are three names app, database and central. So let's go ahead and do that I'll say app subnet database Subnet and central subnet. And within here we can reference to the appropriate data source let's say data dot AWS underscore subnet dot app dot the attribute. You can just verify. You can look into any attribute where the subnet ID is present. So for example this is the database subnet. You have a attribute of ID. So you can just specify ID over here. Same for database. You can just change the name to database. And same for central. You can just change the name to central and save it. Now you can go ahead and do a Terraform plan to verify. So this is appearing as expected. You can go ahead and do a Terraform apply auto approve. Just also cross cross-check one among them. So database is 609. So database here is 609. 549 is app. App is 549. This looks good. I'll go ahead and do apply. Approve so that it gets committed as part of the state file. Great. So this marks the task number two as completed. Task number three states that create a security group named KP labs hyphen SG in central VPC. So in the AWS provider documentation you can just try and search for AWS security Group. So this is what we are looking for. Let's copy a basic one I'll copy this and let's add it in the challenge hyphen 8.tf. Let's remove unnecessary part over here. What was the name of security group? It is KP labs hyphen SG. I'll add it over here and the VPC id. Since you want to create it in central VPC, you can just fetch the ID of the central VPC over here and add it. All right so this is completed. Now comes the main task which is to create the VPC security group ingress rule. So what it is stating use the VPC security group ingress rule to create security group rule based on the content of SC dot, csv file and the following conditions. So if you open this, you have a SC dot csv file that is available over here. You have to create security group based on the content of it. And there are two conditions. One is only inbound rules must be created. Second is based on the value defined in the Cidr block in CSV file. Following values should be computed. So if you will see that in the Cidr block you have certain values like app, database, antivirus, etc. so instead of app database you have to compute the following. For example, app should be computed to the app subnet Cidr block database should be computed to the database subnet Cidr block and so on. So this is the base mapping. So before we go ahead and do that first let's go ahead and create a base structure. We are going to make use of locals. And within here we'll specify a CSV data. Since it is a CSV file we'll use the CSV decode function and we'll specify the appropriate CSV file. The next important part is that we have to compute the values as part of the CSV file to the actual Cidr block. So let's go ahead and also do that. So in local I'll say subnet underscore Cidr. And within here let's say app Database, antivirus. And what was the last one monitoring. All right. And these are basically the exact values that you will see in the cider block app database antivirus and monitoring. And you have to compute it based on the cider block. Now for this you can use the similar approach here. You can copy this. You can add it over here. The ID part needs to be replaced with the appropriate attribute associated with cider block. So the attribute is cider underscore block. So we'll use the same approach here. All right now for database. Also we'll replace this with database antivirus and monitoring if you will see they are part of the central subnet only. So you can just specify central. For both of them. All right. So once this mapping is done, whenever you create the appropriate VPC security group ingress rule, then you will have to modify the values dynamically to the appropriate Cidr block. So now that we have done this you have to make use of this resource type. So this one is this that you can see. We'll go ahead and we'll copy the base. And let's go ahead and add it over here. Now again we have to make use of the appropriate for expression here. So let's do one thing. We can add it within the security group resource. You can also add it in local. It's your choice. So let's do one thing I'll add a for each. And within here we'll say for index value in local dot. What was the name CSV data. What we need. We need a map. So map we can just specify based on index. And then you can specify the value. All right. So once this part is built you can go ahead and change this as well. But the issue here is that if you'll notice it states only inbound rules must be created. So let's do one thing just for simplicity. In the locals I'll say ingress rules. And within here we'll say for data in local dot CSV underscore data. And within here let's specify the important part that are needed over here. The first one is the protocol. So in the protocol I'll say data dot the exact. Let's look into the CSV file the exact name Which is protocol. Second is port. So you have two port and you have from port. So I'll just say data dot port and then Cidr block. This is the most important. And this is where we'll also have to take care of the mapping. And within here we can say local dot subnet underscore Cidr. And then we can reference to data dot the exact name here which is Cidr block. So now ultimately what this will do let me in fact show you. So ultimately local dot subnet underscore Cidr which is this specific one. So it will look something like this. So as part of first iteration it will look something like say app. All right. Now what value will be computed. Whatever value it fetches from this specific data source will. Be computed over here. Something like, say ten .0.10 24. All right. This is just an example. So this is how the values will be computed over here. All right. And apart from that you also have to ensure that since condition has specified that only inbound rules must be created within here you can just say if data dot direction, just verify if it is direction. Yes, data dot direction you have in and for some you have out. So if data dot direction is equal to in. All right so this looks good. And now within here we can just reference it with ingress rules. All right. So this is the base that is created. Now comes the Cidr block. So I can say each dot value dot Cidr underscore block, which is this specific part. The protocol we can say each dot value dot protocol. Now in the from port and two port it can lead to a little bit of complexity. Why? Because you have a range of port. And you also have a single port numbers that are defined. Now in the course also we have looked into how you can address this. So the solution that we are going to use in today's video is going to be similar that we have seen in the course. But we will also try to make it a little different just for diversity. Now ideally what would you do. You would say each dot value dot port. Alright. So this is something that you might add. This would perfectly work if you have this single port over here. But what happens if you have a range of port. So this is where you'll have to split because you have a range. You have to split it into the first and the second over here. So this is where split function comes into picture. You have split you have separator and you have string. Now again we have already discussed about this in the course. So we'll directly use it. So let's copy this part. And within here I'll say now this specific part will replace it with this. And in the split the separator is going to be the hyphen. All right. Because we want to split both of these numbers it is going to be hyphen. And after you have split it this one will have a index of zero. This one will have a index of one. So you can just say index of zero. This is the from port. Now note that when you split it again this is not going to be an issue. Even if you have index of zero it is going to reference this. So in the two port part we'll have to use a slightly different solution because we are going to make use of index of one. So in the index of one we don't want the first value over here. We want the next value if it is available. If it is not available it can ignore that. It should not really error out. So the index of one is not available. By default it should use index of zero. So this is what we need to use. So as part of this we can make use of one more function. So let's use a function of try. So what it says try evaluates all of its argument expression in turn and returns the result of the first one that does not produce any errors. So in the course we had made use of a can function. Again multiple approaches can be used. We are going to make use of try over here. So within here you can just see you have a local and this is the value bar is equal to bars. Now it tries to call this. Since you have it available you get a value. If it is not available you get the fallback value. So basically what we are going to do in the two port, we need the last one over here. So we are going to make use of try function to check if the index of one is available. If the index of one is not available as part of split, then it should use the fallback value, which is the index of zero. Ethan. So I'll say try. And within here we are going to make use of similar approach. The default one would be index of one. If this is not available. Then we are going to make use of index of zero. All right I hope you understood. So first it is going to look into this specific part. This part in case for certain values where you don't have this index of one available, it will use the index of zero. So this is going to be the fallback value over here. Once this is done let's save this. And now let's go back to the main folder. We'll go ahead and we'll run the Terraform init. And we'll run the terraform plan. At this stage we are getting error. What it states that security group example has not been declared. So you can just verify the example ID. So this you can just change the name. Example. We'll save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. All right. So it says seven to add. This is good. Among the seven to add one. Among them is the security group. And the rest all of them are the ingress rules. Now you can also verify how many ingress rules are present. You have one. You have two, three four, five, six. All right. Because your N is present and you're also in total of six ingress rule plus one security group is getting created. This is good. I'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve. And great. This is completed. Now you can also verify you can go to the EC2 service to just check in the EC2 service. You can go to security groups. You have CP labs, hyphen SD and within here you can just verify the inbound rules. Just look into two three rules just for verification. For example say monitoring. Now monitoring is part of the central subnet. And central subnet has the Cidr block of let's verify ten 030. So you can just verify. So 8081 to 8085 has the Cidr block of ten 030. So like that you can just verify everything. Once you have verified, you can mark this task as completed. Now the last task is the output value. What it states use output values to output data with the below shown format. So what you want is you want to get the Cidr block from port and two port over here. So this is example. More rules will be below in your output. All right. So let's also go ahead and do that. So in the output the name is let's use the name. And within here in the value. Since you need certain values like Cidr block from port and so on, you can compute it directly from this specific resource. So let's say for index value in this resource. Now if you look into the output, it is like a map. This is first map, this is second map and so on. And map has a unique key of index. So what we can do we can specify index and then we can build a map. What does the map contain. Cidr block from port and two port. So let's do that Cidr block from port. And two port. All right. And within the Cidr block we'll just say value dot the name. We can directly copy it from here. Value dot from port and value dot two port. All right. Once this is done you can save this. And now you can just do a Terraform plan to verify. So in total you will have six security group ingress rule. Just also verify this gets computed properly. So you have 0 to 5. So total of six rules. This looks good I'll do a terraform apply with auto approve so that it gets added as part of the state file. So once this is done the task number six is to destroy the infrastructure. So let's also go ahead and do that. So first we'll destroy the infrastructure that is part of the main root folder. And then we'll go to the base folder. And we'll also destroy the infrastructure which are primarily the VPCs and subnets. Great. So I hope with this you understood the solution associated with challenge number eight. And with this we will conclude today's video.