Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss in detail about the importance of TFX in automation environment variable here. Now at this stage, one point that we need to keep a note of by default, whenever we run various commands like terraform init, it also gives us a lengthy output here with the appropriate description, which is much more easier for us to review. And it also will include some important information like after terraform init has been successfully initialized, it is also showing us what is the next probable command that you should run. So here you see. Try running Terraform. Plan to see any changes that are required for your infrastructure. So all of this information is very useful here. However, when you have automated environments like CI, CD or some scripts, then you do not really need all of this information because everything must already had been coded as part of your pipeline or as part of your automation scripts. So this is what the next pointer is all about, which states that when you have some kind of automated environment like CI, CD. Then the entire process is generally automated, so you do not really need all of the suggestions that after terraform init you can run terraform plan and so on. So when you have all of these higher suggestion what it will do, it will increase your overall log output in automated system and things will be much more difficult to review. So what you would ideally like in an automated environment is that these suggestions should not be there, so that the output is less lengthy. So in order to achieve this, you need to make use of the TF underscore in underscore automation environment variable. And you have to set it to a non-empty value. Let's also go ahead and quickly look into it. Now for today's practical I have a very simple file called as tf hyphen automation.tf. What this file does is it creates a simple local file called as hello dot txt. When you do a terraform apply now in our copilot terraform folder. This time I do not really have a lock dot hcl or the dot terraform folder, so let's quickly open up the terminal and we'll do a terraform init with a fresh setup here. So when you do a terraform init, as we were discussing, it gives you a good amount of information after it has successfully initialized. It is also giving you a decent description related to what you should run after this specific command, in this case Terraform plan. Now, as we are discussing in an automated environment, all of these suggestions are not really useful. So in fact, let me also quickly show you in one of the pipelines when you look into the deployment stage here. In fact, let's go a little down. You see, when Terraform is running the init command, we have all of this information that is set. And you also have information like Terraform plan. So all of these information is not really required. And it is increasing the overall output. And when you are troubleshooting things if things are not working then unnecessarily you will have to go through this. So you do not really want this. Now again I had intentionally added it as part of the pipeline so that we also understand this specific aspects from automated system perspective. So now as we are discussing what is the way to avoid this, the simplest way is to use TFX in automation environment variable. So again in windows there is a specific way to set the environment variable permanently. However, let's just go ahead and do it temporarily. We will also be using the Linux macOS approach in just a moment. First let's cover the windows part. So I'll say set TF underscore in underscore automation to a non-empty value. Let me just set it to true. All right. Now as soon as you have done it now just for simplicity I'll go ahead and I'll remove both of these files and I'll do the Terraform init once again. So this time you see what is the difference in the output. All it is saying is that it has successfully initialized. And also these set of information you do not really want to remove it because this is very important. When things are not working as part of your pipeline, you want to see what is the exact version of the provider plugin that got installed. All right. So this is a much more better output. Similarly, when you discuss about macOS and Linux, the way in which you can set the environment variable is using the export command. So you can say export TF underscore in underscore automation. And you can set it to say true. All right. And you can just verify if this specific environment variable has been set and you will get the appropriate value. So again the overall environment variable setting is quite simple. Now again note that if you are using windows the set command might not be persistent. So if you want it to persist then you will have to edit the system environment variable. So generally let me quickly show you. So within the environment variable you have to specify the environment variable here which is tf underscore in. So you can specify something like this. TF underscore in underscore automation with a variable value of true. And you can just click on okay. So in case if you're wondering where did that screen come from. Within the search you can just open up the advanced system settings. And within the advanced system settings you have the environment variable and you have this environment variable. Now again whenever you set the environment variable through this, you will have to close your terminal. And you have to open it again for the effect to come into picture. Now note that this is not just associated with the terraform init command. So for example, let me do one thing. Let's just remove this specific environment variable. I'll close the terminal and I'll reopen up the terminal. Here we'll do a terraform init. And we got this bigger output. Alright now let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan here. And even in the Terraform plan you see in the bottom. It is showing us what is the probable next command that you can run. In this case it is terraform apply. So again, you do not really need all of this information as part of the automated environment. So in a new terminal let's go ahead and set the environment variable once again so that we can compare the difference. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. Now if you look into the Terraform plan here this specific part that was present is no longer available once this environment variable has been set. Great. So I hope with this you understood the importance of setting the TF in automation environment variable as part of your automated systems, specifically the CI CD pipeline, in order to ensure that the unnecessary logs are minimal for better troubleshooting, and also in the longer term, if you are storing the logs to a specific persistent storage, it can also save you on the storage space on the longer run. So that's the overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.