Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about one of the very important features of Terraform, which is Terraform import. Now, in fact, this is the second time where we are rerecording this specific video, primarily because HashiCorp has recently introduced a major change that the entire community was waiting from past many years as part of the import functionality. So let's go ahead and discuss about Terraform import in detail. Now, before we go ahead and discuss in detail about the import functionality, let's look into some of the typical challenges that organization faces when they plan to introduce the infrastructure as code solutions like Terraform. Now it can happen and in fact you will see it across many of the organizations is that the resources have been created manually since past many years. So let's assume that an organization have thousands of resources, like servers and others that have been created manually and are actively being managed manually as well. Now the organization has realized the importance and the benefits that infrastructure as code solutions like Terraform brings, and they have now decided that they want to start using Terraform. All right. So now let's assume that there are certain resources that are created manually. Now the question that comes is since all of the resources have been created manually, can we bring it under the purview of Terraform in a way that from now on, all of these resources, whenever there is a modification, etc., that needs to be done, it needs to be done through Terraform only. And this is one of the very important question that comes. And this is where the Terraform import functionality comes into picture. Now, as we are discussing, HashiCorp has introduced one of the major changes as part of the Terraform import functionality, which makes it very interesting. Now, before we discuss about the newer change, let's look into how we used to earlier approach this type of challenge. Now, in the older version of Terraform, the import functionality would only create the state file associated the resources that are running in your environment. For example, you have the manually created resources. You use the Terraform import functionality. It will create the Terraform.tf state file associated with these resources for you. However, the actual Terraform configuration file is what the users would still have to write from scratch. For example, you have the EC2 to for s3.tf. So all of these files and the associated resource blocks for EC2 instance or S3 buckets would have to be created manually by the user. Now, although this does not look to be much of a challenge, but in an organization where they have thousands of resources, writing the resource block associated with thousands of resources takes a lot of time. And this is the reason why organizations were a little reluctant in choosing a infrastructure as code solutions like Terraform. They would say that I'll better save my time. I'll continue to manage the resources manually only. So in order to overcome this challenge, HashiCorp has released a newer specific feature as part of import which has changed the game. So in the newer approach, Terraform import can not only import the state file, but it can also generate the Terraform configuration files for you. So this is very exciting. So let's assume that now again you have manually created resources. And using the Terraform import functionality. This time both the resources and the state file will be created for you. So you do not really have to do anything. Everything is created. All you have to do is next time when you want to modify the resource or manage the resource, you can modify the configuration file that Terraform has provided to you. So that's the high level overview. With this base set. Let's go ahead and have a quick demo to understand on how this works. Now for today's demo I have created a security group manually. Now again one part that we need to keep a note of is that this is going to be a demo video. First, we are going to understand about the import functionality, and in the next lecture we are going to start with the practical. So all the code that we are going to use for today's video, it is only for demo. We are going to discuss about the practical aspect in great detail in the next lecture. All right, so coming back to the topic, we have a security group which is nothing but a firewall in AWS. I have created this rule manually. Now here you see I have inbound rules and I have outbound rules. In the inbound rules I have three rules. One is for Https connection, second is for HTTP connection, and third one is for port 21 associated with each port. I have certain set of Cidr blocks that are allowed, and in the security group also there is certain descriptions which have been added. So three rules for inbound and one rule for outbound. So let's assume that this specific resource is created manually. And now you want to bring it under the purview of Terraform, so that from now onwards, any rule modification rule addition needs to be done through Terraform only. All right. Now for today's demo I have a file called as import.tf. Now again note this is a demo video. We are going to start with practicals from scratch in the next lecture. So in this import block over here, what we generally mention is the ID of the resources that is created manually for which we want the Terraform code and Terraform state file to be generated automatically. Now if you look into the ID it ends with 9 to 9 b. And if you see this specific security group ID also ends with 9 to 9 b. All right. So now we are telling Terraform that I want to import this specific security group. Once you have the base set you can run the Terraform plan with generate config LB option. And you specify the file where the code will be stored. So let me just press enter. At this stage the code has been created automatically. Now, if you will see, there is one more file that is created called as my CTF and associated with this. You see, Terraform has automatically created a resource of AWS underscore security underscore group, and it has automatically created the entire code for you. So you did not have to do anything here. Everything has become much more simpler. So again, if you see in the inbound there were three rules. As we were discussing. This is the first rule. This is the second rule and this is the third rule. Now at this stage the state file is not created. You see only the code has been created. So now if you also do a terraform apply, this is where the state file will automatically be created for you. I'll just do a yes. Now it states resource is one imported. Now if you see the Terraform.tf state file is available and the entire state file is created for you. All right. Now let's assume that we have successfully imported us manually created resource. Now let's check if we are able to modify it as well. All right. So let's assume that let's in fact let's go a bit down in this specific rule over here in associated with port 21. You see there is no description. In fact, if you will see associated with port 21, there is no description here. So now let's assume that a description needs to be added. So instead of manually modifying we can now use Terraform. So let's add a description I'll say managed via Terraform. All right. You can use any description. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply again with auto approve just to save time. All right. The modification has been completed. And now if I refresh the console you see managed via Terraform. So now you can manage the entire security group through Terraform here. Now before we conclude there are certain important pointers that you need to keep a note of. First one is that this specific functionality of automatic code generation for the imported resources is available from Terraform version 1.5 onwards, so you have to make sure that you use the latest version if you want this specific functionality. Second point is related to the benefit of this functionality. We were already discussing that it can drastically reduce the amount of time that you spend in writing the code that used to happen in the older version of Terraform, so note that this feature is not available in the older version of Terraform, so make sure to download the latest one now in case if you are wondering what is the Terraform version that you are using, let me also quickly show you that. So when you run the Terraform version command, it will typically show you what is the version that you are using. Anything above 1.5 is quite good in case if you are using the older one, just download the latest binary from the HashiCorp website and that should do so. That's the overview about the import functionality. In the next video, we are going to start with our exciting practicals associated with this lecture. So stay tuned.