Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, I wanted to share at an overview about the purpose behind this course launch and also some of the important course resources that you have to keep a note in order to easily navigate it. Now, the first pointer that I wanted to share is that the primary aim of this course is to learn now, not only this course, in fact, all of the courses that we have launched, the primary aim remains to be the same. And this is the reason why you will generally see that our courses are a little lengthy, but I would say it is worth it. All of the topics that we generally discuss are discussed from practical point of view as well. So the overall concept is well understood. And personally I believe that the certification are always the byproduct of learning. If you have learned a specific tool and technology in detail practically, then you will be able to achieve certification with great scores. All right. So this is one important part that I wanted to share before we actually start with this course. Now let's go ahead and look into some of the important course resources that you should make use of, which will help you in your learning journey. The first important course resources is the PPT slides. Now all of the PDFs that you will see as part of this course, we have made it available as part of PDF, which you can download at any moment. So you can get the course PDF from the first section of the course itself. And at this stage we have 700 plus slides that are available now within here. One point that you have to keep a note is that we regularly update the course whenever the course gets updated again. Our PPT gets updated. So how do you know whether you have the latest PPT? In such case you can check the PPT version. So generally in the second or third slide you will get the PPT version which basically shows you the PPT release date. For example here the PPT release date says 6th December 2024. Now when you download the PPT you will also download this specific slide. Now you can compare this with our lecture from which you download the PPT from. So in the lecture let's say it says PPT release date as 1st January 2025. So that means the PPT that you have downloaded earlier is outdated. And we have the new PPT with the latest changes and latest updates that are available, and you can just redownload the PPT accordingly. So this is one point to note. The next resource is related to our community. So generally we also have a discord community that is available for any queries or any discussion. So let's say that you want to connect with other course students who are doing the same certification. Then you can join our discord community. You can also post queries. We have a support team that is available there as well to answer your queries. So again, in case if you see this to be beneficial, you can join again. Note that this is optional. So our discord link you can find it here. I have also attached it after this video for easy reference. Now again, since we have multiple courses that are available, you will see that there are multiple categories in our discord. The category for this certification is Terraform Hyphen Professional. So any queries that you post, you can post it here so that it is easier for everyone to notice the next very important course resource that you have to keep. A note is associated with GitHub. Now, all of the code that we use as part of our practicals are available in the GitHub page. I'll be adding the link of the GitHub page after this video so that you can reference to it. Just for simplicity, the name of the domains that you see in GitHub are the same as the domain name in the course, so that it becomes easier to navigate. In fact, let me also quickly show you so that it becomes easier. So this is our GitHub repository. The name of this repository is Terraform Professional. And in this repository in total you will see that there are seven domains in the course. Also you have the seven domains with the exact same name. So it becomes easier to navigate. Now let's say that you are going through a video in domain number two. So you can just open this. You can go a bit down. And within here we have a video document mapper where all of these are the exact lecture names that we have as part of the course. So let's say that you are going through a lecture called Terraform functions Jsonencode and JSON decode, for which you need the practical code that we have used. So you can open this. And within here we have added all of the documentation that we have referenced as part of the video. These are the commands. These are the code that we have used both at a JSON encode level as well as the JSON decode level. So you can go ahead and directly copy this code, add it as part of your project folder and try it out. Great. So I hope with this you understood the course resource of GitHub. Again, this is the most important for any practical that you do. So make sure that this part is something that is understood well. Again if you have any queries, you can always let us know. We'll be more than happy to help you here. The next important part is related to the lab environment that we will be using now. Personally, all of the code that we will be trying out, it will be added as part of a folder called as KP Labs Hyphen Terraform. Under my workstation you can have a folder with different name. It does not really matter. This will be the base folder that we will be using to create and manage the Terraform files. Along with that, Visual Studio Code is the default editor that we will be using for this course, and the same Visual Studio Code will also be available for you in the exams, so if you're used to it, it becomes much more easier. Now, before we proceed further, let me also quickly show you on how a workflow would generally look like. For example, let's open one of the lectures here. Let's take a lecture call as moved blocks. Now within here we have a base code that is used in the video. And then we have the final code. So base code is something that you can copy paste from the GitHub. And then at the practical we go ahead and modify this code. And this is basically the final code at a practical level. Now for example, let's say that you want to try it out. So the approach that we generally use is we have a folder called as KP labs hyphen Terraform. Within your we open a Visual Studio Code. So this so this is linked to the KP Labs Terraform folder here within here you can create a file called as Main.tf. And then you can just copy the base code. And you can add it over here. And you can save this and you can perform the practicals that we do related to this specific topic. Once you have completed the practicals and you have understood the topic well, you can just remove this code. And the next lecture code you can add as part of the TF file in this folder. Now one more thing that I wanted to share as part of the lab environment is that we do not explicitly add the provider of AWS, along with the access and secret key as part of this code. For example, when you discuss about the AWS provider, which is the primary provider that we use, you also have to add the access key and the secret key that Terraform will use to create the resource. So generally for the code that you will see as part of our GitHub, you will not really see this specific part. And even in the videos you will not really see this specific part. Because this is repetitive. And generally we avoid committing the access and secret key as part of any TF file. So what we generally do, we generate the access and secret key from the AWS provider environment and add it as part of the AWS CLI itself. Now, in fact, let me also quickly show you. So in your AWS account I have created a IAM user for Terraform. All right. So this is the IAM user for Terraform. You have one more user of Terraform which is for Terraform cloud. So this is the primary user. Now for this user we have the administrator policy that is added. And this user also has the access and secret keys that are available now, just for reference, let me also quickly show you the workflow. Now what you will do in the AWS account you can create a user the user name. Let me just call it as tmp hyphen Terraform. You can just name it Terraform similar to the earlier user. Let's click on next. And within here you can attach the administrator access policy. You can do a next and you can create the user. Now once the user is created let's quickly open the user. Now you can generate the credentials which are the access and secret key. So this part you can create access secret key here. Let's go ahead and do that. And these are the access and secret keys that are configured as part of the CLI. Now within your terminal you have to ensure that you have the AWS related CLI installed. This again is very important. Now generally in Google when you type AWS cli download it will take you to the right page to download the CLI. And within here you have the option for Linux, Mac OS and windows. So in windows also you have option to use the command. Or the better way is to go ahead and download this MSI file. If you click here it will download it and you can simply go ahead and install it. Even in Mac OS you have the GUI installer, you have the command line installer. The command line is much more easier since you have only few commands here. Now, once the CLI is downloaded, you can just open this up and you just have to go through the wizard like you have to click next, next, next and it will be installed for you. In my case it is already installed so we will skip this step. Once you have CLI installed you can just type LS and in case if you see this usage everything is good. Now the next step is you can go ahead and run the AWS configure command and add the access and secret key and the region. So let's do that. So I'll add the access key. I'll add the secret access key. The region will use us East one as the default region, and I'll press enter. And that's about it. Your CLI is configured. Once your CLI is configured, you do not really need to manually hardcode the access and secret key as part of Terraform. Terraform will automatically fetch the credentials and config from your aws cli. So this becomes a much more easier approach and also much more secure. The next important pointer that I wanted to share is related to the Terraform version. Note that in the course we use the latest version of Terraform, whichever is available at the time of recording, and the latest version as of now is 1.1 10.1. When you are watching the video, it can happen that this version is much more higher, so go ahead and download the latest version here. Now when we discuss about the Terraform Professional certification, it is also associated with a specific version. Now at this stage, when the certification was initially launched for the first time somewhere in September 2024, the version of Terraform that you will see in the exam was 1.6. At a later stage, the certification Terraform version will also be upgraded accordingly. So what you can do is for this course you can use the latest version of Terraform. This also gives us flexibility to discuss some of the important newest features in more detail. And then whenever you sit for the exam preparation section and complete the challenges, you can switch to the exact Terraform version that the exam is testing you upon. Now, let me also quickly show you so that there is no room for confusion. So when you discuss about the Terraform professional certification, you see that the product version tested is 1.6. However, when you discuss about the latest Terraform version that is available at this stage, it is 1.1.1. So there is a difference between the product version that is tested and the actual version that is available for Terraform. And the last important point that I wanted to share before we conclude today's video is related to addition of some external topic as part of this course. Now, when I say some, it means around 5 to 6 videos that we have added and not some random videos. The videos that we have here are very important, not only from real world perspective, but if you say that your Terraform professional, and if you go for the job interviews and you say that you have implemented some kind of static analysis tool and other external topics that we have added, it will really help you in job interviews. And if you are already working and if you implement it as part of your organization, it will be of great use. All right. So these topics that we have added, we have clearly marked it as external so that you can know these are not part of the exam blueprint here. Great. So these are some of the important course resources and pointers that I wanted to share before this course. So let's go ahead and get started with the exciting journey of Terraform professional certification.