Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing about the basics of the Terraform import functionality and also the exciting feature associated with automatic code generation. So in today's video, we are going to start with our practical where we are going to create a resource manually. And then we'll look into how the automatic code generation feature works and its associated configurations. Now from the AWS Management Console let's quickly go to the EC2 service. So currently I am in the North Virginia region. You can use any region that you'd like. Now within here we are going to create a resource of security group which is firewall. All right. Let's go ahead and manually create a security group I'll just call it as manually created SG. All right. And in the description I'll just say manual. Now in the inbound rule we are going to add certain set of rules. First rule is for say port 80. And within here I will say 0000. In the description I will say allow http from internet. Then I'll add one more rule associated with 443. Again 40000 allow https from internet. And we'll create one more rule of port say 22. And this time we'll add a very specific Cidr block. I will say 1723100 16. And within I'll say allow from let's say private network. All right. So three rules inbound one rule outbound. And once you have done that you can go ahead and create a security group. So this security group is manually created. And now our aim is to import it in Terraform so that we can manage it as part of Terraform itself. So in order to do that what you have to do is you have to use the import blocks. Now if you look into the documentation associated with the import block. Let me go a bit down. The syntax is very simple. So you have the import block over here. And within here you have two and you have ID. So within two you have to specify the resource address. For example, as we know that Terraform will automatically generate the code for you. Now within here if you see this part is automatically generated by Terraform. But you will have to provide the address where this code will be associated. For example AWS underscore instance dot example. So now what will happen is the code associated with the EC2 instance will be added to this specific address. Over here an ID is the ID of the actual resource that is running in your infrastructure. So very simple block. Let's go ahead and try it out. Now I have a file called as import.tf. Within. Here you have your provider and you have the region. So make sure that the region matches the region where you manually created resources is present. For example, in my case I am using North Virginia. Again, I have to show you the code is US East one. But let's say you are using Mumbai. Make sure you use AP South one and so on depending upon the region. So let's go ahead and try it out. I'll say import. And we know there are two important areas here. You have two and you have ID. Now first let's go ahead and fill the ID part. So here we have to copy the ID associated with our manually created resource. You see you have a security group ID in fact this is the security group ID. So just copy this and add it over here. And the next part is two within it I'll say AWS underscore security underscore group dot my SG. Now this part remains to be the same. Now in fact let me also quickly show you this. So in Terraform documentation, if you want to create a security group you have to use a resource called as AWS underscore security underscore group. So this is how the resource block looks like. AWS underscore security underscore group then local name. And then you have the exact configurations here. So what we are telling here is to create the AWS underscore security underscore group with the name of my SSG. And inside this add all of the code here. All right. So this is what we are seeing in the two block. And this is the only thing that is required I'll save the change. Once you have done that. The next important part is that you can make use of generate config out along with Terraform plan. Now again, at this stage I only have the base dot terraform folder available where. Generally this gets created when you run terraform init. So as part of my folder I only have the import.tf file that is available here. Now going to the CLI you can run the command of Terraform plan and I'll say generate config out. And here we can specify the file where we want the config to be generated. I'll say my CTF. Let's press enter. At this stage it has given us an error. So a very small change that you will have to do is you can just remove this part. All right. This should solve it. So let's clear the screen. We'll run the same command once more. And at this stage it has automatically generated the configuration file. So this time you will see a new file called as my CTF has been created. If I open it up you see AWS security Group my AC. This is something that we had defined. And within here the egress block and the ingress block have been created. Now if you see we have three rules. Our HTTP rule port 80, https rule 443, and the SSH rule of 22. Now at this stage we had just run the Terraform plan and the state file is not created. So the next part is to run the Terraform apply. I'll just use auto approve here to quickly sort things out. So this will create the state file one. Resources have been imported and if you will see the state file is also available. Now just for testing you can go ahead and you can edit this out and see if things are being created as expected. For example, for this port 80 this time instead of 0000, I will say 1077 0.0 slash 16. Just for an example. I'll save this and we'll run the Terraform. Apply with auto approve once again. Ethan. This is done now from the console. At this stage the port 80 is 0000. Let's refresh. And now you see port 80 is 1070 700 16. So now we are able to successfully manage the resources through Terraform. Great. So I hope with this. Now from the practical point of view you understood the importance of Terraform import. And with this will conclude today's video.