Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the resource targeting in Terraform. Now let's assume that you have a folder of KP Labs Terraform. And there are multiple files that are present. Each file has its own set of resource definitions. So first we'll go ahead and create a server in AWS. Second we'll go ahead and create a local file. Third will create a new AWS user. Now in such case whenever you run some operation like Terraform plan or Terraform apply behind the scenes, Terraform will merge the contents of all of the files, and it will go ahead and will create the resources accordingly. And this is the default behavior. For example, if you do a terraform apply, it will go ahead and it will create all of the resources that are defined as part of the folder. Now this is fine. Many times question that comes is hey, I just want to apply one specific resource. So even though there are multiple resources that are defined in the same file or within the same folder, I do not want to create all of them. I just want to create one specific resource. So is that possible? And the answer is yes. So let us understand this with this specific code snippet where you see there are three different resources that are defined as part of the same file. First one is creating a IAM user or a AWS user. Second is a simple security group which is firewall in AWS. Third is creating a simple local file called Foo.txt. Now let's say that you just want to create this local file. You do not want this AWS user to be created or this security group to be created, even though they are defined. So in order to achieve such kind of use cases, resource targeting is one of the approaches that you will have to take here. So what does the resource targeting does? It allows us to apply changes to a specific subset of resources rather than applying the changes to the entire infrastructure. So in such case you can do Terraform plan and you can use the target flag to target the appropriate resource which you want to create, apply or destroy. So if you look into the exact command, it would look something similar to this where along with Terraform plan or Terraform apply operation, you have to specify the target flag here, followed by the resource address local underscore file, which is this one followed by foo. So now whatever operation that you have defined either it can be plan, apply, destroy. It will only run against this specific target. The above resources will not be touched at this stage. So that's the overview about the resource targeting. Let's go ahead and try this out practically now for today's practical under the CPP Labs Terraform folder I have a file called as resource hyphen target.tf. And similar to the screenshot that we had seen, this file has three resource. One is the AWS user, second is the security group. Third is the local file. So let's go ahead and see on how we can use the target to just run operation against this specific resource. Now from the CPP Labs Terraform folder, I'll just quickly open up a new terminal. If you have not done it, you can just do a Terraform init so that the appropriate provider plugins of both the HashiCorp local and the HashiCorp AWS gets downloaded for you. Once this is done, whenever you do a Terraform plan. So by default we know that it will combine the contents of all the files, and it will try to create the resources that are defined as part of those files. So here you see as expected you have three to create local file security group and IAM user. So this is the default behavior. This is something that we do not want what we want. We just want Terraform to run operation against the specific resource. So you can specify the target flag. After the target flag you will have to specify the resource address which is local underscore file dot foo. So it will look something like this local underscore file dot foo. And this time you see it says one to add. Now one more thing that I wanted to show you. There are other ways to define this. So for example you can also say something like target is equal to and within the double quotes you can specify the resource address. This will also do the same thing. Sometimes one way might not work in some operating system, so it is better to understand both of the approaches. So in this case again you have one to add. And it is also showing you a warning stating that a resource targeting is in effect. Now one thing that you have to keep a note of is that this target flag that we are discussing, it does not apply just for one operation. So here we have run the plan, but target flag can also apply for other set of operations like apply, destroy and so on. So let's go ahead and try it out. So instead of the Terraform plan here you can say Terraform apply I'll just do a yes. And the apply is completed. Now if you look into the KP labs Terraform folder you have a new file called as Foo.txt. In a similar way if you'd like, let's run the same command. However, this time we'll go ahead and do a destroy. I'll do a yes and destroys completed. And now if you look into the folder, the txt file is no longer present. All right. So I hope with this overview you understood the resource targeting using the target flag. Now let's look into some of the use cases where you might need to use this. So let's say that there is a project that has ten resources. Now multiple team members as part of your team are working on each resource Terraform code to release some new updates. So the entire update has not been completed for ten resources here. Now, when you run a Terraform plan, you see that Terraform is trying to make changes to all of the ten resources. So since work is in progress, you do not want to update all of the ten resources. However, let's assume that there is some critical issue and you need to add port 80 in the security group. So out of ten resources, one resource is of security group. And there is a critical issue where you want to make changes to that security group. So you want to add port 80. So in such case, if you want to make changes to only one resource without having to update other nine resources in such case as we know, the target flag can be useful. Similarly, if you might want to destroy one specific resource and not all of the resources again, the target flag can be useful here. Along with the use case that we were discussing, there are some occasions where you will need the resource targeting, specifically when Terraform state has become out of sync due to network failure, or maybe some issues or bug as part of the Terraform provider. So in such cases also resource targeting can be useful. Now one very important part that you need to remember that targeting individual resources can be useful, but it should not be used as part of normal workflow. So as much as possible, avoid using the target flag in specific scenario where you do not have any other option. In such case, only use it, otherwise, avoid using it as much as possible is one of the recommendations. So that's a high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.