Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the resource of random integer. Now at a high level overview, when you define the resource of random integer, there are two important arguments. One is minimum and second one is maximum. And the resource of random integer will generate random value from this specific given range that we were discussing. So if you look into the output, the output is a random value as part of the range that you have defined. So let's do one thing before we proceed further to look into some of the use cases where this can be useful. Let's go ahead and try it out. So from our Visual Studio Code let's go ahead and create a file of random hyphen integer.tf. Let's add the resource block of random integer will give a name here. And here you have to define a minimum. Let's say minimum is 100 and maximum is 1000. All right I'll save this. Now when you do a terraform apply with auto approve. the apply is completed and if you see the random integer that it has chosen is 385. In fact, if you look into the state file, you have the 385. Now, just to make things much more clear, you can also add a output with a value of random integer or this followed by the attribute. In this case it is id. You can always verify yeah it is id. I'll save. This will clear the screen. We'll do a terraform apply again. And this time you got the output of 385. Now discussing about some of the sample use cases where this resource can be useful. One of the use case is related to S3. Now generally when we discuss about S3 the resource names must be globally unique. For example, let's say I create a S3 bucket called as KP labs Terraform. Now any other user across all of the AWS accounts, no one will be able to create a S3 bucket with the same name, because the bucket names must be globally unique. So in such cases, you can make use of the random integer resource to add a random number to the resource name to avoid any conflicts. Specifically, when we discuss about automated environments in many cases like dev staging testing environments. Here, for example, you have a random integer resource that is being used. And in the S3 bucket here you see you are specifying the bucket followed by the random integer result whatever is being provided. So when you have KP labs bucket hyphen, a random integer is chosen. The chances of a bucket with a similar name globally might be much more lesser. So when you look into the output, you will have KP labs bucket 307, zero one, and so on. So generally when we discuss about automated environments like dev testing, etc., then this proves to be very useful. So let's also try this out. So within here let's do one thing I'll say resource of AWS S3 bucket. And the only thing that is needed here is the name of the bucket. Let's just call it as KP labs hyphen bucket. Now, as we are discussing that, in case if any AWS account across all of the accounts that are available, any AWS account has this bucket name, then I will not be able to create it. So what you can do, you can add the random integer related results also. So let's do that. I'll say random integer or this dot result. Again result is the attribute here. Here we have used an attribute of id. Now again both will give you the same output. This is a string and this is the number that is the major difference. So here you see it is showing you the number. However here you see it is showing you the string. So once then I'll save this. Now when you go ahead and do a terraform plan we'll just look into the overall computation. You see KP labs hyphen bucket. Hyphen 385. Great. So that's a very high level overview about the random integer resource. And with this we'll conclude today's video.