Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about a resource targeting in a little more detail, specifically in the context of dependencies in Terraform. So let's go ahead and understand this now for today's video we have a very simple resource code where first resource is a random integer. So it generates a random integer between 1000 and 50,000. Second resource is a S3 bucket. And the bucket name here depends on the value associated with the random integer. So here you see. This is the value that will get computed. So for example this resource has computed a value of 1001. So what will be the S3 bucket name. It will be KP labs testing hyphen bucket hyphen 1001. Now that we understand the basic of the code in the screenshot, let's go with the important learning one, which states that resource targeting updates the resource that target depends on, but not resources that depend on it. This is quite important. Let's also understand this with some examples. So this part becomes much more clear. Now in this case we know that we have resource number one. Now resource number one directly does not depend on another resource here. However, the resource number two is dependent on the resource number one, because the random integer result needs to be computed for the S3 bucket that needs to be created. Now, whenever you use targeting to update a specific resource, in this case, we are starting with the resource of random integer. Now we know that the random integer resource depends on no other resource here. So when you try to modify this, for example, 1000 to 1005, and when you run the Terraform plan with the target of random integer dot desc, it will only go ahead and make changes to the random integer resource and no other resource here. Let's go ahead and try this out post which will be discussing about the interesting example number two. Now for today's video, similar to the screenshot code that we were discussing in the Cliffs Terraform folder, I have a very simple file called as target hyphen. And let's quickly open this with Visual Studio. Now, similar to the screenshot, we have a random integer which creates a result between 1000 and 50,000. And we have a S3 bucket. First, let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply post, which we'll discuss about example one and example two. Now let's go ahead and quickly do a terraform init. Once this is done I'll go ahead and I'll do a terraform apply with auto approve. So this time a random integer of 8057 got generated. And if you look into the S3 bucket name, in fact you can quickly look into it from the state file. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and open the entire folder with code. And within here I'll open up the state file if you will see the name of the bucket is KP labs. Testing bucket hyphen 8057. All right. This is simple to understand. Now let's go with the step number two, where we modify this random integer to say 1005. Now since you have changed the minimum or maximum, it will go ahead and recreate the resource. And the random integer will also be reset. So for example, if I'll go ahead and if I'll do a Terraform plan? Here you see, the random integer must be replaced and it is forcing the replacement here. Now, since the random integer is also getting replaced, you will see the S3 bucket part will also be replaced because the entire bucket name will change. So this is the basic of example number one. Note that we did not do a terraform apply. We just modified the resource block and that's about it. Now comes the important example number two where we know that S3 bucket depends on the random integer. Now, since the random integer was modified whenever you do a terraform plan with the target of S3 bucket example, it will go ahead and it will replace the random integer as well, even though it is not part of the target. This is an important learning that needs to be noted. For example, this time I'll do a Terraform plan with a very specific target of AWS S3 bucket dot. In this case it is example. So now generally it is assumed that only the S3 bucket related resource will be modified, but that is not the case. So this is where the first point comes into picture, which states that resource targeting updates resources that the targets depend on. So in this case this target depends on this resource. So if this resource code is modified but not yet applied, still the resource of S3 bucket whenever targeted will also modify this resource. So now when you do a Terraform plan, you will see that there are two changes that will be applied. You see total of two changes. The random integer resource is also going into a force replacement along with the S3 bucket resource. All right. So just for simplicity we'll also go ahead and do a Terraform apply to understand the entire workflow. I'll do a yes. This time you see a new random integer was created with 13783. And when you look into the terraform state the name of bucket has also been changed here. So that's an overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.