Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss the basics of moved blocks. Now one important point that we have to keep a note of is that whenever you're working with Terraform and you have various long lived configuration, you might come across scenarios where you want to move an object, or you might want to rename a object. For example, if you look into the screenshot, you have a security group resource with a local resource name of database underscore firewall. Now let's assume that this is the initial name that you had given few years back. Now you are going ahead and having a standard naming convention for all of the resources that you have created in Terraform. So now what you want to do, you want to rename this local name from database underscore firewall to payment underscore database underscore firewall. Now when you rename this it is not as straightforward in Terraform. So generally whenever you want to rename a specific object Terraform will assume that your intention in this case of renaming is to destroy the resource at an older address and to create the resource at a newer address. So now what will happen is whenever you do a terraform plan after renaming this, Terraform will go ahead and destroy the resource using database underscore firewall has been destroyed and it is recreating the resource of payment underscore database underscore firewall. Now this simple operation of renaming a specific resource name leads to recreation of resource. So you do not really want this in production environment. So in order to overcome this, there are multiple ways in Terraform that you can use so that this recreation of resource does not really happen when you perform some operation like renaming. So before we go ahead and look into the appropriate solution, let's quickly look into this specific scenario practically post which we'll be looking into the move blocks. Now, for today's practical, I have a very simple file called as moved dot f, similar to the screenshot that we were discussing. You have a security group resource with the name of database underscore firewall. And all it does is it creates a simple security group in AWS. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and first create this resource. So from our KP Labs Terraform folder I'll go ahead and I'll quickly open up the terminal. We'll just do a Terraform plan I have already done the terraform in it to save time. So it is saying to one to add that is completely fine. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve so that our resource gets created. Great. So our apply is completed now from the AWS console in the region where the resource has been created. If you go to the security group you see our DB underscore firewall security group has been created. Now let's say after some amount of time it can be few months, it can be few years. You want to have a very standard convention of naming the resource in Terraform. So now what you want. You want something like payment underscore database underscore firewall. So this is a more appropriate name considering this firewall is used for payment database. Now if you have renamed this when you do a Terraform plan you see what Terraform is doing. Terraform is destroying this specific resource and it is recreating the resource just because of the resource address change, the resource is completely recreated. This is something that we do not really want for production environments. And in order to overcome this scenario, one of the ways that you can make use of is the moved blocks. So at a high level overview, whenever you are making use of moved block, Terraform treats the existing object at an old address as if it belongs to the new address. So if you look into this screenshot here we have the renaming done. So this time you see you have payment database firewall. So this renaming is done. And after renaming before you do a Terraform plan you are adding a moved block here. Now in the move block you have the from you have the two in the from you have the old address in the two you have the new address. So once you add this move block, Terraform will no longer recreate the resource for you. So once you have done that, when you do a Terraform plan, you see it does not really destroy the resource here. So before we start with the practical, it is important for us to understand the basics of the moved block syntax. It looks something similar to this, a very simple one inside the move you have from and you have a two in the from. You have the old address, and in the two you have the new address. So with this base set let's go ahead and quickly try it out. Now as we know that we have renamed this specific resource name. So what you can do you can add a move block here. Within here you have a from and you have a two. And in the from you have to add the old resource address. So AWS underscore security underscore group dot database underscore firewall. So this was the old address. And in the new address we'll specify this. So let's remove this and I'll specify the new address. And that's about it I'll go ahead and I'll save the change. Now from the terminal this time after we have added a move block. When you do a terraform plan, you see Terraform is no longer recreating the resource for you. So this is a much more better way. However, it is still trying to perform one operation. If you see what it is trying to do. It is not trying to add. It is not trying to change. It is not trying to destroy. So what exactly it is trying to do? Let's understand. So basically this specific operation is trying to update the state file with the new resource address. Let's understand this. Now if you look into the TF state file, the security group resource that we had initially created, it had a name of database underscore firewall. This is something that we already know. So what we did we renamed it to payment underscore database underscore firewall. And we also added a moved block. So as of now this state file in this state file this name has not yet been changed. So this plan operation is saying that you also have to update the state file. So now if you go ahead and do a Terraform apply with auto approve. You see it states apply has been completed. And now if you look into the state file instead of database underscore firewall. Now you have payment underscore database underscore firewall. So once the state file has been changed, if you try to do a Terraform plan once again, this time it will show you no changes as expected. No changes. All right. So I hope with this you understood the basics of the moved blocks. Now before we conclude this video, a few important pointers that we have to keep a note of. First one is that in various scenarios like renaming a specific resource something similar to what we did in today's video, there are multiple methods that you can use to ensure that the resource does not get recreated. So one of the standard methods is Terraform state MV command. You can make use of this. And second one is the move block. Both of them will allow you to achieve similar set of use cases. Second pointer is that when you are making use of move block, there is one specific benefit. What is that benefit? Since you are adding that move block as part of your configuration file. This code block is more visible for all of the team members to know of here. Now, when you run the Terraform state env command, it runs as part of your CLI, so other team members might not be aware of that. So if you want to have more visibility as part of your team collaboration mode, block offers wider benefits here. Now when we discuss about a Terraform state env command, it is also used in the scenario that we were discussing here. But one of the benefits here is that it can be used as part of your scripting. So if you have a bash script, if you are using a Python code to rename a specific resource, you can add this command as part of your scripting for wide variety of bulk operations. So this command is very suitable when you have some kind of automation environment and you want to modify the state file with the new resource address. So that's a high level overview about the move block. And with this we will conclude today's video.