Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about the escape sequence in the coded string. Now, whenever you are working with Terraform, coded string is something that you will be using quite extensively to provide the appropriate values. And what does the coded string mean? It simply means that it is a sequence of characters that are enclosed within the double quotes. So if you see, you have hello which is enclosed within the double quotes. So this is what we are referencing to as a coded string. Now whenever you are making use of coded string, there are multiple escape sequences that are available that you can use as part of this to achieve wide variety of use cases. And these escape sequences are important for many use cases. So let's go ahead and first understand one of the challenge post, which will be discussing about the escape sequences in detail. So first let's understand the overall challenge. So let's assume that you want to create a file called as friends dot. TXT with this content. The content is. The name of best friends are Alice and Bob. Now what is difficulty in this? You can simply create a local file resource. You can add this as part of the content and that should solve the issue. And the answer is no. Now if you would look into this specific content, you have coded string that are specified multiple times. You have Alice comma Bob, and you want this quoted string to be added as part of the friends dot. TXT file. So when you try to add this as part of the local file content, it will simply give you an error which will be discussing in just a moment. So if you want to handle this scenario, you have to use escape sequences without which things will not really work well. So let's go ahead and try this scenario out. Post which will be discussing on what this escape sequences are. Now, as we are discussing the easiest way to create the file called as friends dot txt with this content is using the local file resource. So based on the content that we were discussing is the first point, you might want to include the quotes as part of the content section here. For example, you want Alice to be in quotes or Bob to be in quotes. So when you have such kind of a scenario, if you are not escaping it, it will immediately give you an error. Whenever you do a terraform plan or whenever you do a terraform apply. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and try this out practically. Then we'll discuss things in detail. So before we do that, remember the aim. The aim is to create this file with the content exactly similar to this. So let's try it out now within our Terraform folder. We'll quickly open this up with Visual Studio. And within here we'll quickly create a file. Let's just call it as escape hyphen sequence.tf. And as we know we want to create a local file here. Let's just call it as local file and within the local file. So if you explore the resource of local file. Just for revision. You have two important areas here. One is the content. What exactly is the content you want as part of the file that will be created. And then you have the file name. So let's just specify content and then we'll specify file name. Now in the file name over here we know the file name that we want is friends dot txt. And what is the content that we want. Let's say I just add a content something similar to this. Now here it is still giving an error stating no enough labels. That is fine, you can just give a local name college this and the last thing why it is giving an error. It is because the attribute name is different. It should be file name. Great, I'll save the change. I'll quickly open this up with a terminal. We'll do a terraform init. Once this is done we'll do a quick Terraform validate and at this stage it is giving an error. Stating a reference to a resource type must be followed by at least one attribute access. So generally what we do, we add it as part of the quoted string. So something like this. Now if you do a terraform validate it is working perfectly. Well. Now this is one thing that we have extensively used. So the challenge that would come is in the content itself you have multiple quoted strings. So let's go ahead and try it out. So if you try something like instead of test here I'll say the name of best friends. Are you want Alice to be in quoted string and Bob to be in quoted string. All right. So here you would assume that in this friends dot txt, the exact contents would be added where Alice and Bob will be in the quoted string. Let's try this out. I'll clear this screen. I'll do a Terraform validate immediately. We got an error over here. So whenever you have use case something similar to this, and in fact many other use cases that we will be discussing escape sequence are used to overcome this. So now that we understand one of the challenge, let's look into the potential solution using the escape sequences. Now, when we discuss about the escape sequences in Terraform, there are some of the common escape sequences that you need to keep a note of to achieve wide variety of use cases. So we will be discussing about some of the common escape sequence that are available in Terraform as part of today's video. So the first escape sequence that we are going to explore is related to the solution that we were discussing, where if you have multiple codes that are added and you want to use a escape sequence, you can make use of that. So here you have a backslash followed by double quote, which allows us to enter a literal quote without terminating the string. This is very important part to remember. So if you see you have a escape, followed by the code again. Escape followed by the code. So when you have this kind of an approach in the file in the final contents of the file, the escape character will not be present. The double quotes will be present. All right. This is one important part to remember. Let's go ahead and try this out. So within here the solution is very simple. You just add an escape here. Let's try this out. And that's it. You see the error is also not coming here. And now if you try terraform validate it is working perfectly well. So just to verify if everything is working you can just do a Terraform apply auto approve. The file is created and if you look into the file you see Alice and Bob both have double quotes that are present here. Great. So the escape sequence that we had used is this one, which is related to the literal code. Let's also explore few other escape sequences so that we understand this topic in much more detail manner. The second escape sequence is related to the literal backlash. Again, very similar to the first one that we were discussing many times. What happens is in the content or in any other attribute. Also, specifically if you are using a windows path, if you specify a path like C drive users XlVi, etc., this will not really work. So in order to have this, you can make use of a backslash, which is an escape character, to include an actual backlash in the string. So let's go ahead and also try this out. So for example currently we are in this location C drive CP labs Terraform. So in fact let's copy this. And in our Visual Studio just for simplicity I'll add this path. So you see when it comes to Linux and Windows or Windows and Mac OS, the reference that you can use as part of the file path will change. So you have a backslash in one and you have the front slash in other. So if you are looking in say Linux, it would look something similar to this. So you have root, you have CP labs, hyphen Terraform and so on. Now let's say that you want to add this path as part of the local file. So let's do one thing. Let's remove this. And I'll say the path of Terraform is let's add this path and I'll save this. Now one thing you see it is not really showing you any warning messages. So for example when you do a Terraform validate it is showing as success. And if you just do a terraform apply with auto approve the file is replaced. So if you open up the friends dot txt again it has taken up the entire file path location perfectly. Well. Now this is all good. However, when you try to include the windows file path it will not really work well. For example, let's use the windows file path here instead of the Linux one. And immediately you see you are getting a warning message. In fact, you can also do a Terraform validate and it is stating invalid escape sequence and what it is saying. Further, the symbol K is not a valid escape sequence selector. Now generally when you discuss about escape sequence, it starts with a backslash. Then you have the character like n r t, you have double quotes and so on. So what it is saying is that since we have added a backslash and after backslash we have added k. So Terraform is trying to understand what exactly is this escape sequence. It is not really able to find it. And the same is shown in the error stating that the symbol k is not a valid escape sequence selector. So if you have such kind of an issue, what you can do is you can add one more backslash here, which is a literal backslash, and that should solve the issue for you. So now let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform validate. Things are working well. Let's do a terraform. Apply again. And now if you open up the friends dot txt the windows file path is perfectly added. So when you have two backslashes over here, one will be removed as part of the final file. Alright, so I hope with this you also understood the final solution on how you can deal with this. The next escape sequence that we should know is related to New line at an overview. This is referred to as a backslash followed by n. So this sequence it inserts a new line making string appear as two lines. For example in this local file you see hello comma, welcome to Terraform. So now let's say that you do not want. Welcome to Terraform be placed in the same line as Halo. You want it in a different line. So in this case you can add this escape sequence of backslash n. So now whatever content is present after this will be added as part of new line here. So if you look into the solution it would look something similar to this. All right let's also go ahead and try this out. So just for simplicity what you can do, you can just add one more escape sequence followed by n. This is simple to understand. N stands for new line. Let's save this I'll do a terraform. Apply again if you open up friends dot txt. You see the second path is in the new line here. The next escape sequence is related to the tab character indicated with backslash t. What this does. It inserts the tab character, which is generally used as part of the alignment. For example, in the content item one. Then you have the backslash t value one Item two. Backslash t. Value two. Now if you look into the final output, it would look something similar to this. You see all of them are quite aligned. And this is also useful in a wide variety of use cases. Let's also try this out. So just for simplicity let's say item one colon. Then you can simply add the escape sequence of tab character. You can say value one or since tab is already added, you don't really need to add a space explicitly. Comma item two tab character value two. I'll save this. Let's do a Terraform apply once again and when you see friends dot txt, it would look something similar to this. Now, although the spacing is aligned in case. If you want this in new line, we know what is the solution here. So you can simply say something like after value one, you can enter the new line escape sequence. You can remove the comma. Let's save this. will do a terraform apply. If you open up the friends dot txt, you will see an output something similar to this. Now here we have a small difference here, so let's also fix this. You can just add a space here. That's it. Let's do apply again. Let's open friends dot txt and things are better aligned now. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview you understood the basic topic of escape sequence and what are the wide variety of escape sequences that are available in Terraform? We looked into some of the important ones like New Line, the tab, the literal code, the little backslash. There are few other ones as well that are also available. Again, they are not used quite extensively, but you should keep a note that there are other sequences that are also available. So in case if you have a use case, you can go through them whenever the need arises. However, we wanted to keep it simple and to understand the overall topic at a high level. Overview. So with this, we'll conclude today's video.