Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the higher docstrings in Terraform. Now note that this concept of your docstrings is not something which is very unique to Terraform. Even in other programming languages like Python, you have PHP and so on. Your docstrings are extensively used, so if you are from a development background, or even in Linux, your docstrings are used. So if you are from those backgrounds, this topic will be much more simpler for you to understand. However, we want to ensure that we'll study this topic from the basic to detail so that everyone is on the same page, because your docstrings are something that you will see being used quite extensively for wide variety of use cases. So with this, let's get started now at a high level overview. When we discuss about your doc, you can also refer to as a year document. It is a way of using multi-line strings within your configuration file. For example, if you look into the screenshot you have a multi-line string. So line one is hello. Line two is world and so on. So whenever you have use cases where you have multi-line strings, the concept of your doc comes into picture. Now in which use cases will you have multi-line strings. There are a lot of use cases. For example you have scripts, you have some configuration file, you have some JSON data, etc. etc. your docs are extensively used. We'll be discussing about this in just a moment in great detail. So let's take an example of multi-line string. Let's look into different ways in which we can handle such kind of use cases. One of the common approaches that organizations and users would use is to make use of the escape sequence within the quoted string. For example, if you look into this screenshot, you have a multi-line string here. So you have. This is line one followed by the escape sequence with backslash n. This is line two. This is line three. So when you do a terraform apply what will happen in the final output of example dot txt you will have a multi-line based data over here. So just for simplicity, let's also go ahead and try it out so that there is no confusion that arises. Now for today's practical, I already have a file called as your doctor with a local file resource. And this is a multi-line output that will be added as part of the sample file dot txt. This is the escape sequence of new line that has been used. So now whenever you do a terraform apply with auto approve here. So the apply is completed. Now if you look into the sample file dot txt you see this is line one. Line two, line three. Now although this is fine because the content of each line is not quite big. However, in case if the content is quite lengthy then this approach becomes a little confusing. For example, let's say this is line one. In the line two I will say now it becomes a multi line document. So this is the line number two. Now in the line number three. This is getting a little confusing to read. So now you see the same approach. When the content becomes quite lengthy it becomes difficult to read and also difficult to manage. So now you have to scroll things right, understand what exactly is happening and so on. So again, this is not the best way to use. So a better alternative for the overall readability and aesthetics is using the here doc strings here. So you can make use of your doc again to achieve the same result of multi-line content. And the benefit here is that overall it becomes easier to read. So the older approach we saw that we use the escape sequence as part of the content. Now if you look into the newer approach, it would look something similar to this. So in the content here again you have a content. Here you specify the overall content. This is line one. This is line two. This is line three and so on. And this part here, you see it becomes the overall year. So let's also go ahead and try this out post which will be discussing the other areas. Now the same resource block just for simplicity I'll just copy it here. Now instead of just specifying the escape sequence here, you can make use of your doc. Now, just for simplicity. What I'll do, I'll just move the file name at the top and the content. I'll move it at the next line. So now what you can do in the content. You can include a here doc. So let's specify. Then you can add a line one. So this becomes the line one will remove the escape sequence. Then this is the line two will remove the escape sequence. And this is the line three. All right. Now within here you can remove any quotations here. And you can specify the EOT. All right. And since you specified the EOT this is the ending. You can specify same over here. Now again this name can change. You can just say ABC also. That should also work. So now if you see this part is easier to read or this part is easier to read, the answer is very clear. The second option is easier to read. Now how does this work? Let's also go ahead and try it out. Now I'll just comment out the earlier code, and this time we'll just use a different file to store the contents. I'll save this. Let's do a Terraform apply auto approve. The apply is completed. Now if you look into the here doc dot txt again you have the same output. However, this time things are much more better in terms of readability. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood what your doc is trying to achieve specifically for the multi-line based content. Now, generally when it comes to Terraform, you will see that your docs are extensively used specifically when you are writing some scripts. For example, you have a local file, my scripts, and these are all the commands and you want to store it to the file here. So this is the output here. So for this kind of an approach where you have a lot of commands. Again there are multiple ways to achieve this. But one of the approaches that you will see organizations making use of is using the ear dock here. So when we discuss about the real world use cases here, docks are extensively used for wide variety of use cases. Specifically when we discuss about the user data. So generally user data is some set of commands that you want your EC2 instance to run as part of the overall configuration. So when you have a lot of commands that needs to be added, your dock based approach is generally used here. Apart from that, whenever you are also writing various IAM set of policies. For example, this is one of the IAM policy here. Also, your dock is quite extensively used. Now. One thing that we were also discussing in the introductory video, which is your dock is not some exclusive feature of Terraform. It is available for other programming languages like PHP, Python, etc. it's also available for Linux. Let me also show you a Linux based example so that we are quite well versed with this specific topic. So currently I'm in a Linux server and we are also going to quickly explore here. So for example if I use a Cat command and we'll use a here doc with EOF. And within here you can specify I am a say who am I. Then I'll press enter to the second line. I am the admin here. All right then we'll end this with EOF in the output. You see I am root. So this part got computed. All right. So even in Linux using the here doc you can have multi-line contents that you can make use of. Again it is quite extensively used in bash scripting as well. Great. So that's a very high level overview about the here doc strings in Terraform. And with this we'll conclude today's video.