Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about the hair doc strings in more detail. Now the first important area that we need to understand is related to the components of the ear doc strings. So when you discuss about this, the first important component is the ear doc marker. So this part that you see which is two less than signs. This is an example of the ear doc marker. There are other option also available. So one you have the two less than sign which is the first one. And then you have this been used with the additional hyphen for a indented ear doc. So we will be discussing about what indented ear docs are all about in just a moment. But just understand this part, which is the ear doc marker. Then after you have specified the ear doc marker, you have to use a delimiter word of your choosing. So here you have the EOT instead of EOT. You can specify anything that you want. It does not really matter. It will work. However, whatever you use at the start, make sure you use the same delimiter word at the end here to signify the end of the multi-line content, and the third one is the line break. So these are the three important components of the year docstrings. Now let's go ahead and understand the difference between the two year doc markers that are available. As we were discussing, there are two types of year doc strings. One is the basic second one is indented. So here you see first one is basic, second one is indented. First let's go ahead and look into the basic. Then we'll step with the indented version. Now at a high level overview. When you discuss about the basic year doc string it looks something similar to this. So you have the two less than sign. You have the EOF and then you have EOF at the end. Now this is something that is very simple to understand. Between these two you can specify whatever multi-line content that you would like. So the year doc marker for the basic type is the simple two less than sign. Now, one of the important areas that you need to understand for the basic here, doc, is that whatever content that you specify between here, all the white spaces, including the leading space or indentation is preserved. Very important part to remember. So for example, you see the output block starts from here. And the value that you specified starts from here. So there are certain leading spaces that are been here. Along with that there are also certain alignments that have happened. So you have line one. Then you have line two which has additional space when compared to line one. And same with the line three. So all of this additional space, the indentation and everything that you specify within the basic here doc is preserved in the final output. So if you see in the final output you have the exact. So you will have the same leading white spaces that you have left in your code, and the same level of additional space and the same level of indentation is preserved. So first let's go ahead and try this out. Post which will be discussing about the second type here. Now for today's practical we have a file called as your doc hyphen 2.tf. A very simple file. What it does, it creates a local file with the name of your doc dot txt. And here you see we again have used the basic type here. So you have used the iate. Iate basically stands for end of text. So this is one of the standard convention that is often used now within here you have this is line one. This is line two and this is line three. Now one thing that you have noticed here is that for each line there are certain leading white spaces here. You see these are the leading white spaces. Let's also do some level of indentation just for an example. And I'll save this. So generally what would happen is in the final file when you do a terraform apply you will have same level of white space and same level of indentation that will be preserved in the final output. Let's save this. And from the CLI. I'll quickly do a terraform. Apply with auto approve. Once this is done, if you see in the content, the indentation is preserved. Now if you open up the here doc, you see you have same level of indentation and the white spaces are also present. So this is the basic type. The second one is the indented. Here docstrings. The only difference between basic and indented is that you have a extra hyphen that is been added after the two less than signs here. That is the major difference in terms of how you specified. However, in terms of output it is a little different. So here what happens is that the indented type it will strip the leading white spaces from each line. The benefit here again is the overall readability. So for example when you look into the output it would look something similar to this. So all of the leading white spaces that you see has been removed here. So let's also go ahead and try this out. So I'll copy the same block. Let's just call it as indented. And we'll just add a hyphen over here. And in the file name I'll just call it as indented. And we'll save this. Now from the terminal I'll do a terraform apply. Now if you look into the indented you see the leading white space that you see. For example in the doc dot txt you have this leading white space. You see this is not really present in the indented file. Now again there is a small calculation based on the leading white space. We'll be discussing about that in the next video. However, just remember that the line which has the shortest series of leading white space, that much white space will be removed for other lines also. Great. So at the overview, I hope with this you understood the basics of both the type of your docstring. Now, generally when you look into the production code. You see, this is again an example of EC2 instance which has the user data. So under the user data, you specify the commands that you run as part of the system initialization. So generally for the scripts that you write or for the commands that you run in the system, you do not really want any unnecessary spaces to be added. So this is the reason why. You see you have the indented here docstrings, because you do not really want the leading space to be preserved. So when this happens, all of the spaces that is present at the start will be removed in the final output. Now there are some cases where indented here doc is not at all useful. For example, if you are making use of YAML in YAML type of format, the indentation is very important. Otherwise things will not really work. So when indentation is useful then you can make use of the basic type. If indentations are not that useful, you can make use of the second type of your doc string. So with this we will conclude today's video.