Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now, whenever you understand the difference between a basic and the indented docstring, one of the primary difference is related to the leading whitespace and the overall preservation. So this is going to be the clarity video specifically related to the leading whitespace. So there is no room of confusion in the topic of your docstrings. So with this let's get started. First let's go ahead and understand the basics of the leading whitespace, because in one it is preserved, in the second it is not preserved. So it is important for us to understand what exactly this means. So the leading whitespace over here it refers to the whitespace characters. It can be spaces or tabs that appears at the beginning of each line within the year doc block. So these spaces or these tabs, whatever you want to consider, these are the leading white spaces. Now whenever we discuss about the indented here doc, note that Terraform will look for the shortest series of leading whitespace across all the lines in the doc. As we know it's a multi-line, so it will look for the shortest series of leading whitespace and removes exactly that amount of whitespace from every line. This is very important for us to remember. We will also try this out practically, so let's understand this with an example where in this code you see you have four whitespace characters. Just for an example, in the line one. In the line two you will have more because you see line two is indented, and in the line three it is equal to the line one. So when we discuss that, whenever you are making use of the indented aodocs, terraform will look for the shortest series of leading whitespace across all the lines. So within all the lines here, what is the shortest series of leading whitespace. And the answer would be four. So the line one starts with four spaces. As you see, the line two starts with six spaces, which is two more than the line one and the line three. Again, it starts with four spaces, similar to line one. So based on that, if you are making use of the indented here, doc, what Terraform will do, Terraform will determine what is the shortest white space among all the lines it will determine it is for. So in the final output, it will remove four spaces from beginning of each line. Now four spaces if it removes from line one and line three. So there will be no spaces here. However, since line two has six spaces, you will have two additional white space that will be present here. So this is how the indented year doc really works. So let's also go ahead and try this out. Now for today's practical I have a file called as your doc hyphen 3.tf. And this file has contents of both the basic year doc and the indented year doc. First let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply first thing that you will see in the basic year doc, there is a indentation along with the whitespace characters that are being added, so you can quickly count it. Now again, before doing that, let's go ahead and do a terraform apply. So from the CLI I'll quickly do a terraform apply with auto approve. So once both the files are created, you can quickly open both of these files. So one is basic and second one is indented. Now if you see in basic the overall white space characters remains to be the same. So you have four here. If you look into the main code 1234. Now if you look into second line 123456. Total of six. Similarly. 123456. All right. So the overall indentation is perfectly preserved. Now when you discuss about the indented here doc let's also open this. You see the indentation has been removed completely. So here you had indentation of one two, three, four for all of the lines. And all of the indentation has been removed. Why it is removed? It is because of this specific pointer that we were discussing, where Terraform looks for the shortest series of leading whitespace across all the lines, and removes exactly that amount of white space from every line. Now, since you have four white spaces across all the lines. Terraform will remove all four across all the lines. And this is the reason why this is the output here. Now let's try a small modification. So line one will leave it to four. Line two will add two more. So total there will be six, one, two, three, four, five and six. And line three also will remain to be four, one, two three, four. Let's save this. We'll do a terraform apply once again. There has been some changes if you see. Now if you look into the indented file, the line one and line three had the shortest whitespace which is four. So that has been removed. Line two has total of 6123456. So four will be removed from six. So there will be a total of two. Let's verify one and two. All right. Great. So I hope with this example you understood the basics of leading whitespace and the true difference between the basic here and the indented here. And with this we'll conclude today's video.