Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about two important Terraform functions. First one is Jsonencode. Second one is JSON decode. So when I say important Terraform function it means important when you have JSON data. In such cases, these are the two important functions that you have to be aware of. And JSON is quite common for a wide variety of use cases. In fact, let me also quickly show you this before we start today's video. For example, if you discuss about AWS, a lot of data that you will get will be based on JSON. For example, if you want to see the AWS IP address ranges, generally many of these ranges are whitelisted in the firewall. In fact, let's also quickly open this up. If you see you have a JSON data here. So you see this file is quite extensive. It contains various information like the region, the IP addresses and so on. Many a times it is used for whitelisting and similar use cases. So whenever you are dealing with JSON, as we know, JSON encode and JSON decode proves to be very useful. Now again, note that depending upon the type of data that you will be dealing with, the appropriate function will change. For example, currently this is the page associated with the JSON encode function. However, if you look into the type of functions related to encoding your various functions like Jsonencode JSON decode, then you have the CSV decode. Then you have the text decode, base64 url, url encode, YAML, encode YAML decode, and so on. So from the name itself, you will be able to identify what function is allowing you to do. Among that, some of the common functions that you will be using is JSON. JSON again is quite common in a lot of production environments. CSV is also sometimes used and base64 is also. Sometimes you will see being used here today. Let's go ahead and discuss about JSON here. Now at a very high level. Overview the JSON encode function. It takes the Terraform data structure. This is very important. Whatever Terraform data structure that you provide, it can be a list map or an object. It takes this as an input and it converts it to a JSON encoded string. So if you look into this output here in the content this is the content here. Name is equal to Alice. Age is equal to 30. Skills is equal to. You have a list with certain items. So when you supply this data to a JSON encode function, it will go ahead and convert it. And you will get an output data which is a valid JSON format for external consumption. So if you have to look into the output it would look something similar to this. You see it is converted to a valid JSON format. Now many a times what happens is a lot of tools. They support JSON. They require JSON as an input data. In such cases JSON encode proves to be very useful here. So let's do one thing before we proceed further and understand things in detail. Let's go ahead and try this out so that our concept is clear. So if you look into the documentation associated with JSON encode it is quite simple. So within the JSON encode function you provide the data. So in this case you have a simple data of hello is equal to world. And in the output you have the JSON. Let's go ahead and try it out. So within our labs Terraform folder I'll quickly open up the terminal I'll do a Terraform console. I'll just copy the base example here so that we can get a gist. I'll add it here. And in the output this is JSON. Now you can use any JSON validator to verify if the output is actually JSON. So you can use any one of them. I have used this one. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and copy this. I'll add it over here. Let's do a process. And currently it is giving you an error. Now if you look into the output, if you just copy this, let's add it here. This time it is a valid JSON. So let's do one thing similar to the example that we were discussing over here. Let's go ahead and try this out. So within the Terraform folder I'll quickly open this up with Visual Studio. And within the Visual Studio let's go ahead and create a file called as jsonencode.tf. I already have a sample code snippet available for us to save time. I'll go ahead and add it over here. Now the code snippet is very simple. It is a local file over here. What it does, it creates a new file called as jsonencode dot JSON. In this directory and in the content. We are passing this content over here. So let me add it over here. So this is the content that we are passing now. Again from here we can easily determine that this is not a JSON content and we want to convert it to JSON. So this is the reason why you're supplying it in the JSON encode function. And after conversion the final output will be stored in this file. All right. So let's go ahead and try this out. I'll remove this. Let's save this. From the CLI I'll just do a control D to come out of it. Let's do a Terraform apply with auto approve. The apply is completed. And if you look into the final file JSON hyphen encode dot JSON. It looks something similar to this. All right. You can always verify if it is JSON. I'll copy this and you can add it here. You can do a process. And you see this is the formatted JSON data here. Now again note that for the JSON encode function you can pass various kind of data. So you can pass a list, you can pass a map and so on. So that flexibility is there. Great. So I hope with this at a overview you understood the basics of what JSON encode allows us to do. Now, you should also keep in mind on the ways in which you can convert certain data types of Terraform to JSON. One of the important one is a list and as we are discussing, list is a supported data type and it can be converted to JSON. In fact, if you would have taken this specific example in the skills part, you have a list that has been provided here and this list can easily be converted. So let's say if you are not passing the name and age, if you are just passing the list. So in fact let's also try this out. So I'll just remove this. All right. We'll just go ahead and we'll pass the list here. All right. So let's go ahead and remove this. Since we are directly passing the list I'll save this. Now from the CLI you can do a Terraform apply with auto approve. And if you look into the output this is the valid list here. Now that we understand about the JSON encode at a very high level overview, we should also know the basics of what JSON decode function at an overview. The JSON decode function. It takes JSON string as an input and it converts it to a native Terraform data structure like list, map, or an object. All right. So it's like an opposite of encode. So here we have a JSON file here called as sample dot JSON. And this is the JSON contents over here. So when you pass it as part of the JSON decode this is how the output really looks like. So this is based on the native Terraform data structure like list you have map or an object for example. Here you see skills. Here is a list. Then you have a map and so on. So let's also go ahead and try this out. So for today's video I already have the sample dot JSON file. I'll copy it here. Again the contents of this file will be available in our GitHub repository. Now if you open this file let me show you this is a valid JSON file. In fact, let's verify. So if I'll just add it over here I'll process it. This is a valid JSON file. So now let's go ahead and try the JSON decode function. So now for JSON decode. So let's also verify the JSON decode on how you can use it. So if you look into the example you have the JSON decode. Then you supply the JSON. And in the output it looks something similar to this. Now since we have the JSON as part of the sample JSON file, what you can simply do, you can use locals and first you can make use of a file function. Or let's say I'll specify contents is equal to. We'll make use of the file function to fetch the data from sample dot JSON. This is the first part and we'll say decode. And within here we'll use JSON decode and we'll reference to local dot contents. All right, so first this one will go ahead and fetch all the contents from JSON file. And it will be passed on to the JSON decode function. And what you can do, you can just do an output of say JSON decode. And in the value you can specify local dot decode. All right. So in fact let's also go ahead and comment out the first part. We'll focus primarily on this. I'll save this now from the CLI I'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve. And this is how the output really looks like. So here also you see you have multiple data types. You have list, you have maps and so on. Now before we conclude this video, one point to note is that when you have the data that is converted into a native Terraform data type like list, map and object, so it becomes very easy if you're making use of for expression. And this is the reason why Generally you convert the data to the Terraform native data structure format. It does not necessarily need to be JSON even for other data types. Also, generally, we convert it to a native Terraform data structure, and then you can make use of various Terraform features to work on this data for your use cases. So before we conclude one example that I can share. So this IP range is that we were discussing this is a JSON. So generally what would you do is based on this JSON you would go ahead and you decode it. And after that you fetch the IP addresses that you see over here based on the requirement. Again you do not really want all of the IP addresses because the IP addresses are across all of the region. Let's say I want IP addresses based on US East one region. So first you convert it using JSON decode. Then you can make use of certain logic like for expression and so on to fetch the IP addresses based on certain constraints, like the region. And once you get the IP addresses, you can whitelist it as part of a network ACL or security groups in AWS and so on. One more example where Jsonencode function is used is in places where you would require JSON, kind of a data. One of the example is IAM policy in AWS, which are in JSON. So you see this is the IAM policy over here. What you do, you supply it as part of the JSON encode function. So the final output here would be JSON which the IAM policy expects. All right. This is Jsonencode. And JSON decode is where if you already have some JSON data that your cloud provider gives you and you want to work on that data, you want to extract something that needs to be used as part of resources like security group and so on. That is where JSON decode proves to be very useful. All right. So that's a very high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.