Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and take few more examples specifically related to the JSON decode function to understand on how it really works. Now when we discuss about the JSON encode function, it is pretty straightforward where you supply some of the data structure based on Terraform, and it converts it to the appropriate JSON format. Sometimes for many of the use cases, you have some JSON data that you get from external systems, it can be cloud provider, etc. and you want to work on that JSON data. So in such cases as we know, the JSON decode function proves to be useful. Now again, at this stage we have been keeping it very simple where you have some kind of a JSON data, you supply it to the JSON decode, and then you have the appropriate output that you get based on the native Terraform data structure. Now this is fine. However, at this stage what we are doing is we are keeping it very simple where the entire output of the JSON file gets converted many a times. What happens is you need certain aspects of this data. For example, you need to fetch the name or you need to fetch the skills or you need to fetch what are the projects that are completed and so on. So in such cases, it is important for us to understand on how we can retrieve certain specific data that is part of JSON using the JSON decode function. So the first example that we are going to take is based on filtering the values based on key. So at this stage if you see we are supplying certain JSON string over here with name of Mr. a age of 30 city of Mumbai. And we are passing it to the JSON decode function. Now generally when you do an output of this decoded underscore JSON, you will get this entire output in a Terraform native format. However, in case if you like to fetch a specific value associated with a key, for example, you want to just fetch what is the value associated with the key of name that is also possible. So if you see in the local or decoded underscore JSON, you are supplying the name. So this key in the output you will get the value associated with this only. And no other data has been provided to you. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and try this out post which will be discussing about few other examples. Now at this stage within our labs Terraform folder, let's quickly open this up with Visual Studio Code and let's create a new file here called as JSON decode hyphen examples.tf I already have a readymade code snippet that is available. We'll just call it as example one. And this is the code snippet. So very simple. You are supplying a JSON string here, and you are using the JSON decode function, which takes the data from this JSON string and it decodes it. So if you just use the output of say decode and value I'll say local dot decoded underscore JSON. First let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply. So I'll open up the terminal. Let's do a Terraform apply with auto approve. And here you see this is the output that you get. However many times you do not really require all of the details. You require details associated with a specific key in JSON. So in such case you can also specify the key. So let's say the key here is name. So I'll just add a name over here I'll save this I'll do a terraform apply. And this time you see in the output you got a value associated with name. Great. So I hope with this you understood the example number one. The example number two is related to the array of strings. So this is the example. So this is very similar to a list. You have three items as part of this. And within here the aim of today's video is that we want to fetch certain items because here you cannot reference it directly by the key, because you do not really have a key value similar to the earlier example. So in such case, you can also refer to a specific item through the index. So you have the index of zero index of one index of two. So here we are referencing it with the index of zero. So in the output you will get the first item here which is Apple. Let's also go ahead and try this out. So we'll go ahead and use the example number two I have a snippet. Again the snippet will be in the git repository for you to reference. So when you have this kind of a data you can again post this as an output. Make sure to use a different name in the value. I'll just say local dot decoded underscore JSON. I'll just comment out the first example here just to keep things simple. All right. So as we already know, if you just do a Terraform apply, you will get all of this as an output. In fact, let's go ahead and try this out. I'll do Terraform apply. You get this as an output. However, in case if you require a specific item from an index, you can just specify the index number here. Save this and in the Terraform apply you got a specific output here. The third example is kind of similar to an array of objects, where the data looks something similar to this. You have name Alice, age 25, name Bob, age 28, and so on. And now if you want to fetch certain data as part of this, you can also refer to it by the index. So if you specify a index of zero, then the first element here will be provided to you as part of the output. Something that you can see over here. Let's also try this out. So I'll comment out the second example. Let's use example number three Where the data looks something similar to this. Now again we'll use the output value and we'll use the index of zero. I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a terraform apply. And this time you got age is equal to 25. Name is equal to Alice. Now along with that let's say you are just interested in the name part, not the age part of the index of zero. You can also specify it similar to the output along with the index. You can also specify the name part. So in the output it would look something similar to this. Let's also try this out. So very similar example. All you will do is you will also specify a name. So for the zero you will get the output associated with the key of name. I'll save this. Let's do a terraform apply. And this time you just got an output of Alice. Now in case if you just specify a name over here let's save this. Let's clear the screen. If you do a Terraform apply you get an error. What is stating invalid index given key does not identify an element in the collection value, a number is required. So this is the reason why we had specified the index over here, so that we can clearly tell what are the exact data that we are looking for here. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood about the JSON decode function in much more greater detail. Now, whenever you receive a JSON based data from any cloud provider, you do not really know the type of data that you will get. It can contain a list, it can contain map, and so on. So depending upon the type of data that you get and what is the type of output that you want to fetch from the JSON, the overall code that you use after the JSON has decoded will also modify accordingly. And in today's video we just covered some of the basic important use cases related to this. So that's an overview. And with this we will conclude today's video.