Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about data sources. Now one thing that needs to be remembered. Again, this is a very important topic. And whenever you are exploring the production level code, you will see that data sources is being used quite extensively. It basically allows you to make your code much more flexible and modular. So with this base set, let's go ahead and understand the basics of data sources. Now, at a very high level overview, data sources allows Terraform to use or fetch information that is defined outside of Terraform. Now this is a very big advantage and it can solve much more complex cases in an easier way. So let's understand this with an example where let's assume you have a Terraform code. And let's also assume that you are using a AWS Azure provider. Now in a typical approach where data sources are being used, what happens is you define a data source block in your code. Now this data source block, as we are discussing it, allows Terraform to fetch information that is defined outside of Terraform. So this information can be in. AWS. This information can be some text file that is located in your workstation and so on. So in such case data source block, depending upon what logic is being used it can go. Ahead and it can fetch the information from a specific provider. For today's example is what we. Are considering. So here depending upon the data source block that is being used here, what is the logic? It is fetching the details of EC2. Instances in the region. So whatever servers that are running in a specific region in AWS. It will fetch that information. And after fetching that information it will pass on. That information to the resource block and whatever logic that the resource block has, it will use it accordingly. So this part of fetching the information outside of Terraform is what the data source block allows us to do. So what we are going to do in today's video we will take up three examples related to data source that allows us to understand what kind of information it can fetch. And once we understand the basics, then we'll go in much more detail in the upcoming videos. Now the example number one that we are going to explore is related to reading the information about a DigitalOcean account. Now, just for simplicity, I have taken an example of one more provider apart from AWS so that things are much more easy to understand considering that Terraform has so many providers. So in here we are using a data source block that allows us to fetch the information about the DigitalOcean account that we are using. Now, if you look into the screenshot, it is very simple. It is just a single liner block what it states data followed by what information that we need. In such case it is DigitalOcean account and this is the local name. Now for today's video I have a file called as data hyphen source hyphen zero 1.tf. This is specifically related to the DigitalOcean example that we are discussing now. Again, if you do not have a DigitalOcean account, that is completely fine. The aim of today's video is to understand the data source concept at a high level. Overview. Apart from that, there are two more examples that we are going to take which you will be able to implement. So let's look into what exactly this file does. So you have a provider of DigitalOcean. And here I have added a token so that Terraform can connect to our account. Apart from that I also have a simple Terraform required providers block, primarily because DigitalOcean is not one of the official providers. Anyways, coming back to the most important part, which is this data block. So what does this do? You have a data DigitalOcean underscore account followed by the name. So this name can be any random name that you can give. However, the most important part is that this specific line, a single line, can go ahead and read some important information about your DigitalOcean account. Now again, one thing to note is that we are going to discuss about the data sources in much more detail in the upcoming video at this stage, just to make sure that we understand the concept at a high level overview, we are directly starting with few examples so that practically things becomes much more clear for us. So as we are discussing today, we are going to use this specific block of data DigitalOcean underscore account followed by the name what it does. It fetches the information of the DigitalOcean account. Very simple thing to understand now from the CLI. Let's quickly do a terraform init so that it downloads the required provider plugins. And once this is done, we can do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Now one thing that you will see is that whenever you are using a data block here, you see it states reading and after that it states read complete after one second. Now if you'll explore the slide that we were discussing, it states that data source allows you to use fetch information defined outside of Terraform. So this part of fetching information outside of Terraform is what we are referring to here as reading. All right. So it's reading information or fetching information and so on. Now the second part that needs to be understood is that data source by itself it will not create resource for you. The main aim is to fetch some information from the provider depending upon the requirement. And this is the reason why the API is completed. But you see there are no resources that are created, it has just fetched the information. Now the question that comes is where exactly it has fetched the information, because in the CLI there are no information that is shown. So in such case you see a terraform.tf state file is created. And inside this tf state file all the information that it has fetched is being stored, for example the DigitalOcean account. Basically, if you see the token, we have added a token associated with the provider. So this is the token that Terraform has used to fetch the information about the account. Now what information it has fetched You can see over here it has fetched. What are the limits about the number of servers that can be launched? What is the email ID associated with the account. So in this case email ID is instructors at the rate KP labs dot in is the email verified answer is true floating IP limit status and so on. And in fact same. You can see from the documentation itself which states that this specific data source block allows you to fetch these information, like how many servers can be launched, what is the email, the email is verified or not, the status, and so on. All right. So I hope with this you understood the example number one, which uses the data source block to fetch the information about the DigitalOcean account. Now comes the example number two, which every one of us can practice. This is a simple example which allows you to read a file. So again we are using a data block here of local underscore file. And here we have to specify a file name. And in this case the file name is demo dot txt here. So what this will do whatever contents that are part of this demo dot txt file. This data source block will go ahead and read it. That is the only thing that it will do. Let's go ahead and try this out. So let's do one thing. The earlier code that we had just for simplicity, I'll just name it dot bag so that this does not come into picture. When we do a terraform plan or terraform apply, let's create one more file. I'll say data hyphen source, hyphen zero 2.tf. And similar to the example that we had seen within the code, I'll just add the contents again. All of these are part of the GitHub page so that you can reference to it. Now if you look into this specific data source of local underscore file, the description is very simple. It states read a file from the local file system. All right. So let's understand this. You have a data local file a random name over here. The file name you have to specify here. In this case it is demo dot txt. So you need to have a file called as demo dot txt. And from here I'll say hello world. I am learning data sources. All right I'll save this change. Now from the CLI let's clear the screen. Let's quickly do a terraform init to ensure that we have the right set of provider plugins, specifically the local one once. Then you can do Terraform apply auto approve. Very similar. Since the data block is being used, it is reading the information based on the specific resource block. And as we know, where does it store the information? It stores the information in the terraform.tf state file. So if you see in the TF state file under the local underscore file the content here you see it states hello world. I am learning data sources. All right. So I hope with this you have started to understand what data sources allows us to do, which is to read or fetch information that is defined outside of Terraform now. Data source block by itself does not do much. It reads the information for you and then you can pass the data source, block whatever information that has been fetched by the data source. You can pass it to the resource block to be able to do something. There are a lot of use cases. We will be discussing it at the appropriate time. However, in case if you would like, you can also do something like output, say data and in the value you can say something like data dot local underscore file dot foo. And then you can just look into the attributes where exactly it is storing the contents. It is storing in dot content. So you can say dot content. All right I'll save this. So now what it will do whatever data that this block has read it will output it to the CLI. So let's do a terraform apply again. And now you see whatever data the data source block has read. We are getting it in the output as part of our CLI. Now, before we proceed with the example number three, there is one part in the code that can lead to a little confusion which is path dot module. We know demo dot txt was the file that we had created, but this path dot module is not clearly understood. So at a high level overview path dot module, it returns the current file system path where your code is located. For example this specific file demo dot txt it is in C drive users xlvi, CP labs, Terraform and so on. So do you want to mention the entire path? So if you see the path looks like C drive user CP labs Terraform. Sometimes the path are much more bigger. So instead of mentioning the entire path, you can also use path dot module which will redirect Terraform to the current working directory from which the expression is being loaded from. All right, Since we have added the code in this path under the data hyphen source hyphen zero 2.tf, it will automatically compute this path for you. All right. So this is what the path dot module allows us to do. Again there are a lot of flexibility here. But in a simplistic point of view it returns the current directory or the current folder where your code is located. Now the example number three allows us to fetch the EC2 instance details that are running in your AWS account on a specific region. So again, you see the code block remains to be very simple data. AWS underscore instances followed by any random name that you have given here. So let's try this out as well. So the zero two file I'll just rename it. I'll just call it as B so that it does not run when we do a terraform apply. So let's go to the example number three the file name I'll call it as data source zero 2 or 0 3.tf. Now within here I'll say data AWS underscore instances. You can just give a local name here and that's about it. Now, one thing that needs to be remembered here is that AWS has multiple regions. You see, there are so many regions now for which region you want to fetch. The instance details is something that needs to be taken a note of. So just for simplicity, I'll say provider of AWS and let's say region that I want to read the data from is US East one, which is not Virginia. All right. So this not Virginia. You see the code is US East one. I'll save the change. Now from the CLI. Let's quickly do a Terraform init. Let's ensure that the AWS provider plugin gets installed. So currently it is installing the AWS plugins. Once this is done let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Let's see whether this works or it does not work. So the read is completed. Now, if we look into the terraform.tf state file associated with our data source of AWS underscore instances, there is no details. You see ID instance tags. Everything is empty. Now, the reason why it is empty is because there are no instances that are running in the region. So just for simplicity, let me just launch two instances. I'll say test instances number is two. I'll quickly go ahead and launch the instance here. All right let's go to instance. Let's refresh. We have two instance. Let's call first one as zero one and second one I'll just call it as zero two. So if you see there are two instances here the instance state is pending. Let's quickly wait for a minute for the instance state to be running. Great. Now the instance state is running. So now let's clear the screen again. Let's go ahead and run the Terraform. Apply. Alright. As expected it has read the information and there are no resources that are created. Now if we look into the Terraform tf state file, you see this time it is showing you two instance IDs. One is a 31 second is 997. You can always verify you see first one is a 31. Second one is 997. Then it is also showing you the private IP addresses associated with the instance, the public IP address associated with the instance, and few other details. All right. So I hope with this you also understood how the data source block of AWS underscore instances allows you to fetch some information about the EC2 instances in a specific region. Now, before we conclude, one thing that I wanted to share is that at this moment, we just learned on how we can use the data source block to fetch some information that is defined outside of Terraform. So we have explored multiple examples related to the provider of cloud like DigitalOcean or AWS. We also looked into the provider of local file where information of a text file is been retrieved. Now, after the information is retrieved, the other blocks like the output block or even the resource block can fetch this information, and it can be used to create or modify some resources in your infrastructure accordingly. For example, after this information like private IP has been fetched, you want to go ahead and perform some logic on the instances. So this kind of an approach where the information of data block is passed on to the resource block for creation of instances or management of instances, are something that we'll be discussing at a later stage of this course. But at this stage, the overview of the data sources and how it can be used to fetch the information is something that needs to be understood. And that was the aim of today's video. So I hope with this you understood the basics and with this we'll conclude today's video.