Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to explore the documentation references related to the data sources. Now if you remember in the earlier video, we were exploring various examples related to how data source can fetch certain information about a specific provider. For example, here we were reading information about a DigitalOcean account. Then we were reading information from a local file and so on. So the question that comes is how do we know what kind of information does a data source can read? For example, let's say that you are using AWS now for AWS. What are the information that data source can fetch for us is a big question. And the answer to this is documentation. HashiCorp documentation is quite extensive and it will show you what are the data sources that are available for a specific provider. And each data source allows you to fetch what kind of information from a provider. So generally, whenever you explore documentation associated with any provider, there are two important subsections. One is the resources section, which allows you to actually create a resource in a specific provider. And second one is the data source section, which allows you to fetch information of a specific provider. So this kind of categorization. Here you see resources and data sources is something that you will see for a wide variety of providers in HashiCorp. Let's explore this. So from the HashiCorp page, let's take example of three random providers so that we understand the overall structure. We are taking example of AWS, GCP and Azure. Now for the AWS provider. If we explore the documentation, since AWS has so many services here, in fact, let me quickly show you to avoid any sort of confusion. If you see AWS has many services. So you see under analytics there are so many services under blockchain, under compute, there are so many services and so on. And these are the services that we are referring to. Let's take example of EC2 service because we have been creating certain virtual machines in AWS. So if you look into To EC2. First you have a resources section or resources category. So this resources category. It allows you to create some resources in AWS. After resources you have a data sources category which allows you to read some information from the provider. And if you see let's take an example of say AWS underscore Ami. So within here, this specific resource block of AWS Ami will allow you to create the Ami or a operating system image in AWS. Similarly, in the data sources also you see you have a data source with the same name AWS underscore Ami. So if I click this what it does, it fetches the operating system image ID that is already created in your environment. So one is for creation. Second is to read the information of the already created resource in your provider infrastructure. All right. So I hope with this you understood the difference between resource and data sources. Here, let's take few more examples. This time we'll take example of the Azure. Similarly, let's take any sample. Here let's take CDN. So again in CDN you have a resources section. You have a data sources section. And this is the way in which you can understand what data sources are available for a specific service of a specific provider. And if you open up the data source, you can get information related to what kind of information it can fetch from a specific provider. All right. So depending upon what information you need, you will have to search the data sources and use them accordingly. Great. So that's the high level overview about the data source documentation. This is the primary information that I wanted to share. Again whenever you are writing the Terraform code, this learning that we have gained proves to be very important in finding the right data sources for your use case. So with this, we'll conclude today's video.