Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore the overall format in which the data source has been defined and also what are the flexibility that we can add as part of our data source to make it more in tune with the use case that we want to achieve now, at this stage, we already understand the basic format in which a data source is defined, where you have a data followed by the name of the data source that is available, followed by the local name. So this is what the first pointer states, which says data source is accessed via a special kind of a resource known as data resource declared using the data block. So this data block that we see is you can also refer to as a data resource. All right. And what does this specific data source does. It fetches the information about the EC2 instance that is running in your AWS environment. And it will export it to the local name of foo. So whenever you are using outputs or something you will have to specify data dot aws dot instance dot foo to fetch the appropriate information about the EC2 instance that has been fetched as part of this block. Now, in a larger scale environment, you need to be very specific. You need very specific form or kind of information about a specific resource in your infrastructure. So in such cases, just by mentioning a single line data source block does not fulfill the use case. You can if you want, you can add certain type of filters based on the requirement. So this is what we are discussing in the next slide where within the data source block body. So you have a curly braces here. Between these curly braces you can also add filters that are the query constraint to filter out very specific resources within your environment. For example, here you have a data of AWS underscore instance. Now a region can have hundreds of servers running. Now for which specific server are you trying to find the information for. So this is where you can add the filter where are you saying that? I am only looking for the servers, which has a tag of team and the value of production. So for today's demo, I have two EC2 instances that are running in the North Virginia region. Now if we quickly look into the tags, let's in fact add a tag of say team. I'll say staging. And for the second EC2 instance I'll add a tag of team and I'll say production. So from the tags you can easily understand the use of a specific EC2 instance. All right. We have two EC2 instances here. One of staging environment second of production environment. So now you have a requirement to fetch information about one of the EC2 instance. So you need wide variety of information like the instance ID, the IP address and so on. So in order to fetch the information about a specific EC2 instance, we know that the data source block needs to be used. So from the AWS documentation you can go ahead for EC2 service. We do not need resources block because the resources will actually create resource for you. What we want. We want a data sources block. Now we want to fetch some information associated with the EC2 instance. So in such case, little bit of efforts are required from our side to understand the right data source block for our requirement. So you have a data source block of Ami and so on. So there is a data source block of you see AWS underscore instance. So here you have to always read the description what it says. It says use this data source to get ID of a EC2 instance for use in other resources. Now what are the information that this data source block will fetch is something that you can find in the attribute here. So it can find all of this information. You see so much information it is fetching for EC2 instance. So these are all the information that it will fetch for a specific EC2 instance. Now if you look into the example usage, you have a data followed by AWS underscore instance, followed by the local name which is foo. Now in fact, you can try it out. Let's just call it as data source ec2.tf. All right. So you can say data AWS underscore instance followed by the name. Let's just call it as example. And I'll save this. In case if you want to specify a very specific region let's say instead of North Virginia you want to search for instances in Sydney region. So in such cases you can specify the provider block as well let's say AWS. And within here you can specify the exact region where you want this data source block to fetch the information from for today's video. Just for simplicity, I am just specifying US East one. Now again, this provider block is not required if you have configured your AWS cli with us East one region. Even if you do not specify this, it will work perfectly well. Now I'll save this. Now from my CLI. If I try to do a terraform, apply with auto approve. I wanted to show you a few things. Here you see it is trying to read however it errored out. And what is the error? It states multiple EC2 instances matched. Use the additional constraints to reduce matches to a single EC2 instance. Now from here we can conclude that this specific data source of AWS underscore instance is only used to fetch all of this information that you see associated with one EC2 instance only at a time. And since we have multiple instances, it is saying that you need to use some kind of constraints like filter or any other constraint that is available so that only one EC2 instance gets matched and the data source will fetch the information associated with that EC2 instance. Now, apart from that, in case if you have, say multiple EC2 instances, then there is one more data source block. You see AWS underscore instances. You have AWS underscore instance AWS underscore instances. If you look into the instances here, it states use this data source to get ID or IPS of Amazon EC2 instances. So this is multiple. So in case if you have multiple instances this is the block that needs to be used. Now if you see the attribute reference it is not finding too much information. It is only fetching certain information like private IP, public IP and so on. So if I replace this with instances I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply. This time it is working perfectly well. Now if you look into the terraform TF state associated with a data source of AWS underscore instances, it has fetched certain information like ID, the private IP, the public IP, very similar to what we had seen in the attribute reference. However, if you are using AWS underscore instance, this can be used only for single EC2, but it fetches a lot of information compared to the AWS underscore instances. So let's go ahead and try this out with filter section here. Now one of the filters that you see is associated with the tag. Now if you had noticed we had added a tag where there was a key. You see there is a key and there is a value. And this is what this filter allows us to match a instance here. So I'll copy this. Let's change this to instance again and this time within this block I'll add this filter. All right. So within here the name should be team and the value should be production. Alright I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's do a terraform apply. Our apply is completed. And now if you look into the TF state file, you will have a lot of information. You see, this time you have the Ami Arn, and so much information about the EC2 instance is retrieved for you using the AWS underscore instance block. All right. So I hope with this you understood the basic format of the data sources, where you use this data block to specify the exact data source that you need. And along with that, we also learned that there are multiple set of data sources block. And it is very important to read the description associated with each data source. And also look into the attribute reference, which shows you after data source has completed its reading or fetching of information, what is the information that it will store in the TF state file. So that's a very high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.