Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to take up one of the very important use cases where data source is extensively used specifically, while you are creating a lot of servers using Terraform in production environment. And the use case is to fetch the latest operating system image using the data source. So let's go ahead and understand this with a requirement which states that you are responsible to create a Terraform code that creates a new server using the latest operating system image. Now which image? In this case it is Amazon Linux, but it can be ubuntu, it can be Windows Server and so on. So this is a simple requirement of a Terraform code. Now at this stage, what is the approach that you will take to fulfill the requirement. First is that we want to ensure that the latest operating system image is used for creating the server. So typically the steps that will follow is you will go to the EC2 console, you will fetch the latest Ami ID something similar to this. You will add the ami ID in your Terraform code and you will launch the server. So in fact, let me quickly also show you the workflow. So generally what an individual will do to fetch the Army ID you will click on launch an instance, you will select the appropriate operating system. There are so many OS you have ubuntu OS, windows OS, Amazon Linux OS and so on and associated with each OS you have a specific ID, so you will copy this ID and you will hardcode it as part of your Terraform code to launch an instance. So this is how your code will generally look like for Army. You will hard code the Army ID here. However, this creates an issue primarily because this is a hard coded static value. What issue this will create is something that we will discuss in just a moment here. But note that this is a hard coded static value now generally from production environment. Note that as much as possible, you should avoid hard coding the static details within your Terraform code. Otherwise sooner or later it will lead to you to repeatedly modify your Terraform code to meet the changing requirements. We are going to discuss what exactly this means. So let's look into one of the challenges associated with a static value. Specifically the Army ID that we were discussing. Now, in many of the use cases, the static value will change depending upon the region. For example, in AWS Army IDs are specific to region, and hard coded Army ID in your code will only work for a single region. Let's understand this. Let's say that you have Mumbai region, Singapore region and you have Tokyo region. Now each region will have its own Ami here, for example Ubuntu or Amazon Linux or Windows Server. However, the difference here is that the ami ID associated with the latest operating system image will differ across the region. So in the Mumbai region, let's say Army ID is 123, four. In Singapore it is five, six, seven, eight. In the Tokyo it is 9012. So even though they are same operating system which is the latest operating system image, the ID will change. Let me quickly also show you this. For example in Mumbai region for Amazon Linux or let's say ubuntu. Alright, let's say the ID of ubuntu is one eight C7. Now if I change the region to Singapore. If you select ubuntu you see it is b7 B so it is completely different. Even though it is the latest image of a specific operating system, the ID changes. So now what will happen is if you have hardcoded this ami id associated with a region say Mumbai. Now if you want to create a EC2 instance in another region, say Singapore, then what you will have to do this specific code will not work. You will have to modify this code, modify this Ami ID of a Singapore region and then only it will work. So let's do one thing. Let me also show you this practically so there is no room for confusion. Now for today's demo, I have a very simple resource block which creates a EC2 instance. And one of the important part here is you have to define the Army ID. So let's do one thing. Let's go to the North Virginia region, and let's fetch the latest Army ID that you see over here associated with Amazon Linux based OS. I'll copy this and I'll hardcode it over here. All right I'll save the change. Now this specific resource block will create a EC2 instance successfully. Considering that a EC2 instance is created in North Virginia region. The moment you change the region, this block will fail primarily because the ami ID will also differ. For an example, let's manually specify a provider of AWS here and in the region. Let's say AP South one, which is Mumbai region. All right. Let's do a save now from my CLI. If I'll quickly do a Terraform plan at this stage you will not see an error. All right. You will see plan. And it is trying to create a EC2 instance with this ami army ID now as soon as you do a terraform, apply with auto approve. Let's verify if this works. Immediately. You see, you got an error stating invalid army ID not found. All right, so I hope with this you understood the challenge in adding the hardcoded static value associated with Army. So instead of static value, you want your code to be much more dynamic so that it can work across multiple regions without you having to modify it. So what do you want? You want Terraform to automatically query the latest operating system image from AWS and use that to create the server. So in such case, first Terraform should go ahead and fetch the latest operating system image ID associated with whatever operating system you need. And once it fetches the latest ami ID from AWS, it uses it to go ahead and create the EC2 instance. So now if you have this kind of an approach, you don't have to worry about hard coding the Army ID in your code. Terraform will fetch the latest army and it will use it as part of creation of EC2 instance. Now, in order to solve this issue, we need to make use of data sources. So what the flow will look like. You have a AWS provider. First you'll have to specify the data source block and you have a EC2 resource block. So what data source block will do? It will fetch the latest Ami ID associated with the operating system from AWS for a region. And then this specific Ami ID will be passed on to the EC2 instance resource block, which will go ahead and it will create a new EC2 instance from. So in order to solve the requirement that we were discussing as part of the PPT slide number one, we need to implement this kind of an architecture. So what we are going to do, we will keep it on hold as part of this video. In the next video we'll go ahead and implement it practically so that we understand the overall architecture. So with this we'll conclude today's video.