Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video we were looking into the disadvantage of hard coding the Army ID as part of your resource block. We also looked into the benefits of dynamic configuration, where your Terraform can fetch the latest Army ID from your provider, and it can be used as part of the EC2 resource block, and the overall setup can be achieved using the data sources. Now, in today's video, we are going to go ahead and look into how this can be implemented so that our overall concept can be much more clear. Now for today's video we have a file called as demo hyphen EC 2.tf. This is a very simple file which creates an EC2 instance for us. I have also committed this file as part of our GitHub repository, so that you can use it as a base reference. So now what we want is instead of hard coding the Army ID, we want Terraform to fetch the latest Army ID and our resource block should use that Army ID for the overall creation. Now we know that in order to fetch some information from a provider, block data sources is one of the right approaches to use. So from the AWS documentation related to the AWS provider, since we are dealing with Amis, which are nothing but the operating system images through which the virtual machines like EC2 can be created, we are more interested in EC2 service. So within the documentation, let's go to the EC2 here. And within the EC2 you have AWS underscore Ami. Under resources. This is something that we do not want what we want. We want the AWS underscore Ami from the data sources. All right. So if you look into the description it states use this data source to get the ID of registered Ami for the use in other resources. This is what we want. Let me quickly show you on how you can see the Ami centrally from the AWS console as well. So generally from the EC2 console you have a Amis option here and within here, instead of owned by me, you can click on public images and within the public images. Also, you can set one more filter stating owner alias is equal to Amazon. All right. So now these are all the images available where Amazon is the owner. Now going back to our data source documentation associated with the AWS Amis. This is how it looks like data AWS underscore, Ami, whatever name that you want to give. And there are certain filters because here also if you see we had applied certain filters and constraints and same, you will be able to add it as part of your data source that you have defined. So let's try it out. So I'll say data AWS underscore Ami. You can give local name let's say my image. And now within this block you can add some constraints. One of the important constraints here is most recent is equal to true. Now if you look into the documentation it states if more than one result is returned based on whatever filters you have defined, then use the most recent army. So this is a useful one. I'll use this and I'll add it here. Second one is the owners. If you remember we had filtered here using the owner of Amazon. So very similar. You can do it over here. So let's try it out. So in the owners I'll say Amazon. Perfect. Now the next thing is Amazon is owner of so many images. You have Windows Server. You have Amazon Linux you have ubuntu and so on. So which specific operating system are you looking for? Is the one that you'll have to add as part of your filter. So if you'll see in the filter, you can specify the exact value associated with the army that you are looking for. So let's add it here. Now within the values here let's explore. So this is the ubuntu image. This is the Amazon Linux two image. Generally you will be also be able to find the details about it in the description. All right so let's explore a few more. So there is one which is Al 2023 Ami. Let's explore that. Let's look into the description. It states Amazon Linux 2023 Ami. And when is the creation date? It is Tuesday, April 2nd, 2024. Now if you look into the Army, the Army name has a specific structure like Al 2023, hyphen Army hyphen 2023, and so on. So based on a structure you will be able to define the constraints. So let's do one thing just for simplicity. Instead of Amazon Linux, let's take ubuntu. Now if you look into the ubuntu Ami let's verify this is canonical ubuntu 24 LTS. Now if you look into the structure Ami name is ubuntu images. HMS is the Ubuntu Jammy 2022 .04. So what you can do within the filters, you can say something like let's copy this. Let's copy this here I'll add it. And the rest part after hyphen is something you can add a wildcard here. So generally if you see the creation date is March 1st, 2024. Now sometimes what happens is the Amazon they keep on updating the image. So if there are some important patches they will update the image where the operating system will remain to be the same but with newer set of patches, so in such cases the creation date will change and also the Army ID. All right. So what we have done in our data section, first we have specified the owner should be Amazon and the name of the Army. The value here should be this hyphen star. So this hyphen part which indicates the date. So this is zero 1st March 2024. Very similar to what we see over here. So this part will change when the next update will happen. And this is the reason why here we have given it as a wild card. All right. So let's go ahead and we'll save the change. Now just for simplicity I just wanted to show you a few thing. Let me just manually also specify the provider. I'll say region as US East one. All right. And I'll save the change now from our CLI. Let's go ahead and quickly do a Terraform plan. Let's verify if our data source is able to fetch the EMI, and that EMI is getting referenced or not. At this stage, your EMI is one two, three, four, primarily because we have hardcoded this. So what you can do instead of hard coding this, you can create a reference here to the value associated with this data source. So how you can do it. You can say data dot AWS underscore emi dot my image followed by the EMI id associated with the attributes of this block. So generally if you look into the documentation there should be attribute section. And here you will have to find associated with which attribute key. Thus this data source block provide the emi id. So if we go a bit down let's quickly verify. So little bit of searching is required here. So this is the one that we are interested is ID of the Army. So this is image underscore ID. So within here you can say image underscore ID I'll save the change. Now let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan. And this time you should see that the newer Army ID is automatically populated here. Now one thing that you will see in fact let's verify if the Army ID is same. This is FC. And the Army ID that we had seen from our console is C30. So let's do one thing. Let's in fact open this up in a new tab. Let's copy the Army ID here and in the public images. Let's search by this Army ID. So all right so this is the army that we are getting as part of our Terraform output. Now, if you will see again this is ubuntu image. Now the creation date here you see this is April 1st, 2024. And the ami ID that we had seen here, this is March 1st, 2024. So this is taking the latest Ami whatever is available here. Now let's do one thing. Let's change the region. I'll say AP South one. I'll save the change. Let's do a Terraform plan. Let's see if it is able to detect newer Ami associated with the AP South one region. And yes, automatically the newer Ami is being populated. All right. Now, just for simplicity to make sure that everything is working, I'll also do a Terraform apply with auto approve to ensure that there are no errors. And suddenly we got an error stating invalid parameter value. The architecture of the specified instance type does not match the architecture Arm64 of the specified Ami. So in fact, let me also quickly show you why we are getting this error. Now within the filter, if you would notice, we have explicitly specified in the value we had specified arm64 hyphen server. So in such case not all of the instance types are supported. So for example, whenever you try to launch a instance using the AWS console and you select the ubuntu Ami ID. All right. In fact let's copy the ami ID. Let's go back to the EC2 console. In the Amis, the public images I'll search the Ami ID that we just copied. Now if you explore this Ami id, the architecture here is x86 underscore 64. Along with that, the a my name is also a little different. it is. Ubuntu images Hvm SSD ubuntu jammy amd64 server followed by the timestamp. So in such case you can use this army. In fact let's copy till here. Let's replace this. All right. So now you are using the Amd64 and not the arm I'll save this. So now let's go ahead and verify if our Terraform apply. Operation works. And great. Our apply has been completed successfully. And if you look into the Mumbai region, the instances you see we have one instance that is successfully launched. All right. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the entire structure on how data sources can be used to fetch the Ami ID based on the filters that you have specified, and the EC2 instance can be created accordingly. So with this, we'll conclude today's practical video.