Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the input variable validation. Now before we discuss about this interesting feature, it is important for us to understand the challenge that everyone used to face before the feature was introduced, so that we can understand the benefit that it provides. Now in Terraform, many times you will observe that after you have written your CL code and you run Terraform plan, everything works perfectly well. But as soon as you run a terraform apply, you will immediately get an error. So let's take an example here where you have run the Terraform plan based on the code that you have written. And you see it is saying that the S3 bucket along with these are the attributes that will be created. So you will assume that everything is perfect with your code. And when you do a terraform apply, things will work perfectly well. But as soon as you run the terraform apply, Terraform will try to create an S3 bucket and it will show you an error. So this part where plan works perfectly and apply does not work and errors out. This creates a lot of issues, specifically in automation environments and others as well. Now the question that comes is why exactly this discrepancy comes. And the answer to this is related to lack of validation. Now in AWS and in fact in other providers also, every service has some amount of restrictions and limits on wide variety of features and conventions. For example, if you take a use case of IAM username, then in IAM there are certain restrictions. For example, if you look into the names like what are the names that you can give for user groups etc. then it states that it must be alphanumeric, including following common characters like plus equal comma period at the rate, underscore and hyphen. So apart from that, other special characters are not allowed to be included as part of the name. So in Terraform, whenever you are writing the code, it is important for you to also understand what are the restrictions and limits when it comes to the naming convention capacity and so on. Now, for many of the resources, you will see that Terraform and its associated providers will validate the input so that the potential errors can be detected quickly. So let's say that this is the IAM username that you are trying to create. Now if you look into the username here it is KP labs hyphen user hyphen zero one hash. Now if you look into the username requirements here, although there are other characters that are allowed but hash is not in the list. So now what will happen is since you have added a hash over here, whenever you do a terraform plan, at the plan level itself, you will get an error stating invalid value for name. Now let us also quickly look into it. Now for today's demo I have a file called as input validation.tf. Now this file contains a resource of IAM user and the name that we are giving is KP Labs user zero one. So let's quickly open up the terminal. Now if I do a Terraform plan here, let's quickly do that. You see things are working perfectly well. So now if I add a hash over here and we know that hash is officially not allowed, let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan. And in the plan stage itself you see it was detected that this specific value is invalid. And this is the reason why you need to fix it. Sometimes what happens is Terraform and its associated provider might not detect it. So during the apply stage, when call is made to AWS to create a resource based on the appropriate convention that you have defined as part of your configuration file, AWS will give you an error stating that this is not allowed and subsequently you will get that error as part of the CLI. All right, so a few important pointers that you have to keep a note of. First one is that this provider side validation that we were discussing, it works for many of the resources, but not all of the resources. So many of the resources, you will see that the validation does not work, although the plan will work in such case. When you do an apply, you will get an error. So it is very important to also have a user side validation to ensure the overall consistency to the standards and the rules that are allowed as part of the provider. So let's do one thing before we proceed further to understand the validation part, let us also look into how exactly can we replicate this specific pointer that we were discussing, where whenever you are writing a code plan works perfectly, but the apply does not work? Let's try it out now. For today's video, we are going to take an example of a S3 bucket, a very simple resource. Let's copy this. And within here I'll just add the S3 bucket related configuration. And we are going to keep it very simple. Now from the AWS documentation. If you look into the S3 bucket naming rules, the first important rule here is that bucket name must be between three minimum and 63 maximum characters long. This is one of the important requirement here. So that means that if I say test. So this is a valid bucket name. But what happens if I say t then this is a invalid bucket name because AWS does not allow it. So let's do one thing. Let's just call it as hi. All right I'll use this and let me remove this specific code. For the time being. I'll save the change. I'll clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan. And this time you see it is working. Now, ideally there should be a proper provider side validation which should detect that this bucket name is two character long and it should not be allowed. But as we are discussing, the provider and Terraform does not detect all of the issues as part of the validation. So user side validation is also important. Now let's clear the screen. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply with auto approve. So let's see if this works. So Terraform is trying to create the S3 bucket. So this is where the API calls are made to AWS. And immediately you got an error from AWS side which states that the specified bucket is not valid. So this is the reason why ideally what you would want is if plan is succeeding, then the apply should also succeed because that would give us a proper seamless experience. So in such scenario where Terraform and its associated providers are not able to validate the inputs, HashiCorp has also allowed users to go ahead and explicitly add a validation block through which we can validate if input is as expected and conforms to the provider's standards or not. And this is a great feature. So this part of user being able to define the validation related pointers is achieved using the feature of input variable validation at a high level. Overview. This feature, it allows us to enforce certain rules and constraints on the values that can be assigned to the input variable. This is very important part to remember. This specific feature is associated with the value that you can assign to a input variable. So let's take an example where you have a variable of db underscore password. So what you do using this input variable validation feature you assign certain constraint here. And what is the constraint constraint is that minimum length should be 12. So whatever value that you assign to this db password must be of minimum length of 12 characters. So now what will happen is after this input validation is associated with a variable. Whenever a user tries to define the value of the variable, it can be in any place. It can be in the variable itself. It can be as part of the terraform.tf vars, it can be as part of the CLI input, and so on. So as soon as a user gives a value to this variable immediately on Terraform plan, terraform will give an error stating that the minimum length must be 12 characters. So using this specific feature, you can achieve a wide variety of use cases to enforce the best practices and the rule based constraints. So this specific error that we were discussing here, let me also show you on how exactly it looks like. So on a Terraform plan. You see Terraform is asking for value associated with the password. You add a value and immediately you see you got an error stating that the database password must be 12 characters long. So let's do one thing. Let's also have a small demo associated with this so that we understand on how the input variable validation feature works at an overview. So let me clear the screen. I have already added the necessary code related to the input variable validation as part of our file. Now again we are not going to explore code in today's video. We will look into it in the practical video. I just wanted to show you on how exactly the feature works. Now whenever you do a Terraform plan in the code, we have not really assigned a value for the Dbpassword variable, and this is the reason why Terraform is asking for us to provide a value as part of the CLI. So let's give a value of, say admin 123. When I press enter immediately you got an error over here. And what is the error. It states that the database password must be at least 12 characters long. So now let's go ahead and run Terraform plan. Once again. Let's add 12 characters here, just for an example. Now, if you do a Terraform plan, you see we are not really getting any error over here. All right. So I hope at a high level overview, you understood what this specific feature of input variable validation is allowing users to do. So before we conclude few important pointers that you need to remember specific for this feature, first important pointer is that it allows organization to ensure consistency and adhere to the organization best practices. It can be naming standards and so on. It also allows organization to make the Terraform code more predictable. For example, if Terraform plan is working, then Terraform apply is also expected to work in most of the cases. And third, it allows organization to catch misconfiguration at an early stage, so it saves time and also at a later stage it can save you against potential infrastructure issues. So this is the high level overview about the input variable validation. And with this we will conclude today's video.