Hi everyone, and welcome to the practical video associated with the input variable validation. So let's get started. Now the scenario that we will be considering as part of today's practical is something similar to the one that you see in screenshot, where we are going to have a variable of db underscore password now associated with a variable. There should be a input validation where it would check if the value associated with the variable has minimum length of 12. If it has, then everything will pass. If it does not have, then terraform will throw an error. So this is the overall scenario. Let's go ahead and look into the solution for this. Now the final code associated with the use case would look something similar to this, where you have a simple variable of dbpassword the type is string. Now inside this there is a validation block and there is a condition error message. What does the condition state. It states the length. So this is the function length of var dot db. Underscore password should be greater than or equal to 12. If not, then this is the error message. Now when we look into the overall solution there are three important components here. One is the validation block. Second is the condition and third is the error message. So let's go ahead and discuss about each one of them before we look into it. From practical point of view. Now as we are discussing, there are three important components as part of the input variable validation. The first important component is the validation block. Now this is the main block in which we can specify the condition and the error message. The second important component is this condition. Now at an overview condition is a Boolean expression that must evaluate to true for the validation to pass. So is length of var db underscore password greater than or equal to 12. Answer is yes, this will pass. Answer is no. This will fail. The third important component is the error message. So whenever the condition fails, then whatever message that you add as part of this error underscore message. This is the one that user will see as part of the CLI. All right. So a very simple solution. Let's go ahead and try it out. Now before we start to write our code I just wanted to ensure that we understand the length function, because this is the function that is being used. So generally if you use something like length and you say hello, you see you got the output. So the output is five. In a similar way since length is used however, instead of the value here you have defined var dot db underscore password. So whatever value that this variable will have will be computed here. And then it states greater than or equal to 12. So length followed by the password. Is it greater than or equal to 12. If it is it will pass. If it is not then this error message will appear. Now for today's video I have a file called as input hyphen validation.tf. This is the file that we are going to make use of. Now defining a variable is very simple. In Terraform we already know we can just say db underscore password. Now if you would like to have a constraint here you can. So what is the type that should be accepted. In this case it is string. All right. This is the basic. Now you can go ahead and directly start with a validation block as we are discussing inside the validation block, you have the condition and you have the error message. All right. Now in this condition you can make use of multiple set of functions here. The one that we are going to make use of is length. So I'll say length. And within here you can say var dot db underscore password. All right. And now you can say greater than equal to 12. So this is the overall condition. And within the error message you can make sure to have a very reasonable error message so that everyone can understand. So here we will say length of database password must be equal to or greater than 12 characters. So a very simple code here. Let's go ahead and save this. Now from our CP Labs Terraform folder. Let's go ahead and open up the terminal. And we'll do a Terraform plan. Now since we have all right so we got an error. What is the error? It states Terraform 0.11 and earlier required the constraints to be given in quotes. So this is the one. But this form is now deprecated and it will be removed in the future. So it is telling us to remove the quotes around string. That is fine and expected. Let's go ahead and remove it. We'll save the change. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a terraform plan. Now, since the value associated with the variable has not been added as part of the Terraform tfrs, it is asking us to provide a value. Let's provide a value of admin 1234. And as expected, this is the error message that we had added as part of our error underscore message block under the validation block. All right. So I hope at a high level overview you understood on how we can add a input variable validation block as part of our code. Great. So I hope with this you understood the overall topic. Again this is a very simple topic but very useful in wide variety of use cases. So once you try this out practically things will become much more simpler to include it as part of your environment. So with this we'll conclude today's video.