Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss few more examples related to the input variable validation block so that we understand the overall flexibility. So in case if you would have to include it as part of your environment, then you should know what are the types of flexibility and what else can you add to ensure proper validation takes place for input variables. So the first example here is related to the instance type that are allowed. So when you look into this specific code block, it will allow you to launch a EC2 instance only based on certain instance types that are defined as part of the condition. So this is the resource of AWS instance. You have the Ami. The instance type is the variable here. And then you have the variable of instance type. And then you have the validation block. We already know the validation block condition and error message in the condition you are using a function of contains. So in the contents you have three values t three micro, t three medium and m five dot large. So if this var dot instance type has any of these three values, then your EC2 instance will be created. In other case, you will immediately get an error. All right so this is one of the blocks. Let's go ahead and try this out. Now before we explore this practically I just wanted to also highlight the basics of contains function. Now again we were discussing that in the condition you can add multiple set of functions. There are wide variety of functions that are available. For the first example the contains function is used. So in the contains function. Here what you have you have a list of values. And then you have a value here. So is this value as part of this list. If so the answer is true. So in the second example D is not part of this list. So the answer that this function will return is false. So what is happening here is that you have a list of values t three micro t three medium m5 dot large. And instead of giving value like this, you add a variable here, which is why dot instance underscore type. So whatever value user gives for this variable will be computed here. And then it will be matched against this value by the function. And true or false will be returned out. So let's go ahead and try this out again. I already have a ready made code. We'll be using readymade code to save time in case if you'd like, you can experiment it at a later stage as well. So for today's practical I have a file called as example hyphen input hyphen validation.tf. And the first example code looks something similar to this. Again, this is a very simple block here. This is something that we already know. This is one EC2 instance that is getting created. So this is one block. And this is a variable block which has the validation enabled. Now we have already understood what exactly this contains function is trying to do. So let's try this out from CLI. Now from CLI. If I do a terraform plan it will ask us for a value because we have not defined a value anywhere. Let's say I add a value of t two dot micro. And immediately, as expected, we got an error and it is also stating invalid instance type. Choose from t three micro t three medium m five large. So I will clear the screen. We'll run the terraform plan once again when I do AM5 dot large here. This time you see things are working perfectly well. Great. So I hope with this you understood the example number one. Now many times what happens is that when developers they launch the instance, they will not really launch small instance. They will launch a very big instance which they would never really need. So this is the reason why what would generally happen. Many of the organizations in their module itself, they will hardcode using the contents function so that developer cannot launch larger instance. They can only launch the instance which fits the bill that organization can afford, and definitely the instance that the application can run properly from. So this is one example. The example number two is related to string matching condition. So within here you see we have a variable of email ID. So when someone gives the value associated with this variable you want to ensure that the value is in fact the email ID. It should not be any other random value. So in this case you have a condition using a function of can and you are using a regex which basically ensures that whatever value is present, it fits this specific regex. So generally in the comma you have your email id, so it will compute the value of this from either terraform.tf fires or user input. It will validate against this regex. And based on this you will have a true or false value. Now again in the exams, you don't really need to worry about writing the regex and so on. The main aim of today's video is to understand the type of flexibility that we can achieve in the input variable, validation, and some of the important function that you might use in your organization. So let's also quickly explore this. Now within this specific example code we are making use of two important function. One is the can. Function. Second is the regex function. So if you look into the can function it looks something similar to. This. So you have a can. Then you have one more function which is the format date. And then it evaluates. Whether the overall expression that is produced is without an error or not. If it is without an. Error, everything is good. So we are using a can here instead of format date. We are using one more. Function of regex. So when you look into regex, the overall format is you have a pattern and you have. A string. So in here this is the pattern and this is the string. So we are not directly giving the. String. We are adding var dot email underscore id. So whatever value that user would provide will. Be computed here. So let's do one thing. Let's remove the older example and we'll replace it with the second example here. Now in case if you would like to understand what exactly this means, one of the simplest way is you can make use of AI. You can say, can you explain me the regex? All right. You can just add it over here. Let's see what is the response. So if you look into the overall answer it states. Overall, this regex ensures that the email address starts with Non-whitespace character contains a single address symbol, has the domain name part, and ends with a top level domain so you can go ahead and understand each one of them. Again, regex is something that we are not going to cover as part of this course, otherwise it will become too long and also it is not part of the certification directly. So again, this is one way that you can later try it out here. All right. So I'll go ahead and I'll save this from the CLI. I'll do a Terraform plan. So it will ask for an email address. Let's say I'll say test 123. So since this does not conform to the regex, you will immediately get an error. The email must be a valid email address, so I'll clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan once again. This time we'll give a valid, let's say instructors at the rate KP labs dot in, and this time it has accepted it and we do not see any error here. So using regex there is a wide variety of possibility associated with the validation that you will be able to achieve. So this is also something that needs to be kept in mind. The third example is related to ensuring that the army ID that you provide is a valid one at an overview. Now generally here, what happens is the Army, we have just made it as a variable of var dot army underscore ID. And in the condition there are two conditions that we have defined here. One is the length and second one is related to substring. So in case if you would like as part of the flexibility you can add multiple number of function as part of the condition using the and block. You can also use other blocks here. So length function is something that we were already discussing. So here it will say var dot image id is greater than four. So generally when you add an army ID there are restrictions like you cannot have two characters based army ID. So this is the reason why you have said length of var dot image underscore id is greater than four. And so this is first condition. And you have a substring where it expects the first few characters as a m I hyphen. So generally whenever you give an army ID it starts with army hyphen the ID of a image. So this is the reason why both of these are tested as part of the condition. Now. In fact, let me also quickly show you. So whenever you launch an EC2 instance in AWS, you see any operating system that you choose, it will have its own Ami ID. So this Army ID looks something similar to this if I choose ubuntu, the Army ID would look something similar to this. So the initial few characters are army hyphen. So only after this will you have the unique ID over here. And this is the reason why this has been tested as part of the second function here, where it ensures that the first few characters are army hyphen. So let's go ahead and try this out. I'll remove the older code. I'll add the newer code over here. I'll save the change from the CLI. I'll do a terraform plan. It will ask for the Army ID. Now I'll say one to a, b, C, d. So this will ensure that the length function. So this function is now true based on the value that we have given. But the function number two will be false. Now since there is a and end condition that has been provided, both of these condition must be true for the validation to take place successfully. So now if I press enter immediately we got an error. So now let's clear the screen. Let's run the Terraform plan once again. This time I'll say ami hyphen one two, three. This fulfills both the condition. And this is the reason why we have not got an error. Now, in case if you change this and and to say or or. So now what will happen is either if this condition succeeds or this condition succeeds, anything is fine. In such case, when you do a Terraform plan, let's say one, two, three, four, five. If I press enter immediately here, you see, we did not really get an error because this is the function which got succeeded based on the input that we have given. And this is the reason why it is very important based on the use case, to use the right operators here, whatever fits the requirement. Great. So these are the three important examples that allows us to understand the flexibility that the input variable validation allows us to achieve. And with this we'll conclude today's video.