Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about preconditions and postconditions. So first let's go ahead and start with preconditions. Now at a high level. Overview the preconditions in Terraform. They are custom conditions that you can set as part of the code. And these set of custom conditions, they are checked before evaluating the object they are associated with. So this can be better understood with an example which states that. Launch an EC2 instance only if it is part of free tier. So this second part only if it is part of free tier, is referred to as the precondition. So if the precondition fails, then the launch of EC2 instance will not start. So this is an important part to remember. So this can be better explained with this diagram where you have a terraform. You have a user. User says go ahead and launch big server. So this is quite common in big organizations where if you give access to developers, you will generally see that they will launch larger servers then what the application would generally require. So when you have such use cases where a bigger server is being launched, what would happen? The billing will increase. So in order to overcome that, you can set some set of preconditions here. So now based on the precondition, Terraform has immediately given an error stating budget constraints only free tier EC2 instance allowed. This might be a development environment, so a smaller instance is something that can save cost for the organization here. All right. So I hope with this you understood what the preconditions are all about. Now generally I relate preconditions to the nature of my wife. So what she generally says is, Hazel, if you want to step one foot out of the house, you have to be very well dressed. So she makes me wear formals or, you know, a very well dressed before I even step out of the house. So again, it all depends. If she is happy then maybe leniency is given. But generally when we discuss about Terraform precondition, no leniency is given. If you have set the precondition. Precondition must be met. Otherwise you will not be able to go ahead and perform the operation. Now we are also going to look into this from a practical perspective. First, let's go ahead and understand both the precondition and postcondition. Then we'll go ahead and try it out practically. The second part is the postcondition. From the name itself. We can identify that again these are some set of custom conditions. However, they are checked after evaluating the object they are associated with. For example, here you see that Terraform has gone ahead and launched a EC2 instance. After EC2 instance has launched Terraform using the Postcondition is checking if the EC2 instance has a public IP address or not. Or maybe if the EBS volume the disk storage associated with the EC2 instance, is it encrypted or not? So all of these things you can add as part of the Postconditions Conditions here. All right. So I hope with this you understood the basics of post conditions as well. Now, generally, if you look into the overall syntax of defining a precondition and postcondition, it is very similar to the input validation block. If you have worked with the input variable validation block. The overall concept is very similar. Things will become much more easier for you to understand. So what happens here is that inside the resource block you have to add a life cycle block inside a life cycle block. You have the precondition. Inside precondition you have the condition and error message. And in the condition you can add whatever condition that you might want to define. For example as you are discussing is EC2 instance part of free tier and so on. Now you have the error message. So if the condition does not pass, then what is the error message that you want to show to the user? Similarly for the post condition, same syntax is just that instead of pre condition you have to define post condition here. So that's the overview. Let's go ahead and try this out practically to understand the overall use case. Now, for today's practical, we have one resource block over here of EC2 instance. Again this is very simple to understand. And we have one data source block here. So I just wanted to show you what this data source block does. So the block name is AWS EC2 instance type. And within here you have to specify the instance type. So generally what this data source allows us to do. It allows us to fetch the characteristics for a single EC2 instance type. Now generally in AWS whenever you go ahead and launch a instance, you have the option to select the instance type. Let me in fact show you. So this instance type over here. There are so many instance types that are available. You see so many of them are available. So using this specific data source block you can fetch certain characteristics of a EC2 instance type. So what you have to do you have to specify the instance type here like T2 micro for example you have a T2 micro or T2 small. So you have to specify this instance type here and the details will be given to you. So you see these are the attributes associated with the instance type. One of the important attributes which is quite useful in fact let's search for it I'll say free then. This is the one free underscore tr underscore eligible. Now generally in AWS there are certain instance type which has free tier eligible. So if you have a new AWS account you get 750 hours of free EC2 instance usage, considering that you use the right instance type. So T2 micro is one of the instance type which has this free tier eligible. Now again, note that currently it is T2 micro. Tomorrow it might be T3 micro. So again AWS will show you this specific message associated with the instance that has free tier eligible. So this is what this data source block is doing. So we have this data source block. And we say the instance type is T2 micro. So it will show us whether this has free tier eligibility or not. So let's do one thing. In fact, let me just comment out this code just for an example to better understand how things work. And I'll just add an output block, say free tier just for an example. And within the value let's say data dot this one followed by example dot star. All right I'll save this now from the folder where we have our precondition file. Let's open up the terminal. You can go ahead and do a Terraform init in case if you have not initialized. All right. Now once done you can do a Terraform plan here. And as expected if you see so many details are being given associated with the instance type. So what we are looking for is free tier eligible. And if you see free tier eligible is true. That means this is the right instance type. Now in case if I change it to say just for an example M5 dot large, let's do a Terraform plan once again. Now for this, if you look for free tier eligible you see it is false. All right. So this is the reason why I hope you understood the importance of using the appropriate data source block to achieve the use case, which states that launch EC2 instance only if it is part of free tier, so that organization can save cost. So in order to verify if a instance is part of free tier or not, we are using this specific data source block. All right. Great. So let's go ahead and remove the output block. And we'll uncomment this code. Now what you need to do first thing that we are going to do is within this data source block. And also within this EC2 instance block we have to specify the instance type. So first we are going to make it as a variable I'll say instance type. And we are not going to give a value at this stage. We'll just make it a variable. And within both of these places I'll say var dot instance underscore type. Alright. So it becomes much more simpler. And we have a central point of reference. This is one part. Now at this stage when you do a terraform plan, it will go ahead and it will ask you to give the value of the variable and it will go ahead and launch the instance. There is no checking that is taking place here. Let's look into it. For example, let's clear the screen. I'll do a terraform plan. It will ask for the value. If I give a value of M5 dot large, it will take that M5 dot large and it will go ahead and it will launch the instance based on M5 dot large. Considering I do a Terraform apply. So this is something that we do not want. We only want the EC2 instance to launch. If whatever instance type that has been provided as part of this variable has a free tier eligibility or not. So in order to achieve this we can make use of precondition. So precondition and postcondition can be added as part of the life cycle block. So I will say precondition. And within precondition you have two different attributes here. One is the condition and second is the error message. All right. Now within the condition whatever condition that you might want to define you can add reference to variable, you can add function and so on whatever condition that you want to specify here you can do that. So let's say I specify data dot aws EC2 instance type dot example dot the exact attribute where the free tier related data is given. So if you see free underscore tier underscore eligible and it is true if the instance type is eligible for free tier. So I'll say free underscore to underscore eligible. So now at this stage you don't have to do anything automatically. This value will either be true or it will either be false. And that is what the condition wants. If condition gets a true value that means everything is perfect. You can go ahead and launch the instance. If it gets a value of false, that means something is wrong. You cannot proceed further. All right. This is what a condition does. Now in the error message you can say only launch free tier eligible EC2. All right a very simple precondition. Let's go ahead and try it out. So I'll clear the screen I'll do a Terraform plan. It will ask for the value let's say M5 dot launch. And immediately you see we got an error. What does the error states. It states resource precondition failed. And it is also showing you the value. So this specific computation, the value that it is getting is false. And this is the reason why the condition is getting failed. So now let's also try other way where I say terraform plan. This time I say t two micro. In your case, if it is a different free tier instance, you can just compute accordingly. Now everything is working perfectly well. All right. So I hope with this you understood on how we can make use of precondition to add some custom condition logic as part of the code, and only if the custom condition logic is true, then only the resource will be evaluated, otherwise it will not work. The second one is the post condition. Again, the overall use case is simple where these set of custom conditions are checked after evaluating the object. So many times after an instance is launched, you want to verify certain use cases whether the EC2 instance has public IP or not. So all of those details you can check as part of the post conditions. So for example post condition. Again the overall syntax is simple. I will say post condition. Within the post condition you have the condition here and you have the error message here. Now, since post condition can be checked after EC2 instance gets launched, you can make use of the self object here. So generally what we do is we use something like this AWS underscore instance dot example dot whatever attribute that you might want. So this is something that you can avoid. You can just say self. So it will refer to this specific resource block. All right. So this self is only available as part of the post condition. Because the attributes of this EC2 instance will be available after the instance is launched. So this self is not available as part of precondition. All right. This is one important part to remember. Now, generally if you look into the AWS instance resource block, let's look into the attributes that are available. There are so many attributes that are available that we can check. Alright. So these are the attributes that are available. What we want to check. We want to check if the EC2 instance has public IP or not. So one of the attribute here is the public IP. So under the attribute reference you have public DNS public IP. So this is what you can use. So all you have to do is self dot public underscore IP is not equal to empty value. So now what this means if there is a public IP attribute that this post-condition is able to find and this attribute is not empty, that means some IP addresses are assigned to this EC2 instance, then this condition will be true. If no IP address is assigned to this EC2 instance, then this condition will become false. All right. And in the error message we can say EC2 must have public IP address. All right. So this is the post condition block. We'll go ahead and we'll save the change. I'll clear the screen I'll say Terraform plan. We'll specify the value. We already know that if we don't specify a free tier, eligible precondition will fail at the start itself and will not be able to proceed. So the plan looks good. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve. Let's specify t two micro in this case. Great. So the EC2 instance has been created successfully. Now if you look into the EC2 instance let's verify this is the EC2 instance that has been created. And if you see the instance has a public IP address that is associated. Now let's do one thing just for better understanding on how this block works. I'll go ahead and I'll do a Terraform destroy with auto approve. Let's also specify the EC2 instance. So let it get destroyed. Now what we are going to do we are going to intentionally fail this post condition block. And we are going to see how exactly Terraform behaves in such case. All right. So the instance is getting destroyed. Now at this stage we know that by default the EC2 instance will have a public IP. So now what you can do you can say is equal to is equal to empty value. So since public IP is assigned to the EC2 instance it will not pass this condition. It will not be equal to empty value. So that means this condition will be false and the post condition block should fail. All right. So make sure to save this change. Let's do a Terraform plan now. Again note that this will not fail at the start because the post condition will have no way to find whether the instance has a public IP or not. So I'll do a Terraform. Apply auto approve. I'll say T2 micro. So the EC2 instance creation will start. And at this stage you see the creation has been completed. After that immediately you got an error stating resource post condition failed. Why? Because this self public IP is this. However a condition had self dot public ip equal to equal to empty value. Now since the value is not empty and there is actually an IP address here, the condition has failed. Now in such case, when the condition has failed, let's do a Terraform plan. Let's also give a value here. You see, even the plan is getting failed primarily because this post condition has failed. So this is something that you have to keep a note of. Now in such case, if you try to destroy let's try to destroy the EC2 instance. Let's say that you do not really want this EC2 instance because the Postconditions are getting failed and you say, I'll at least destroy the instance, I'll do a yes, and at this stage Terraform will allow you to do that. So at this part Terraform is lenient that okay you do not want this resource because of post-condition errors. Go ahead and destroy it. Fix your code. Come back again so that the precondition and postcondition does not fail so that you and me are both happy. All right, so the destroy has been completed. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the basics of the precondition and postcondition here. Now, before we conclude a few important pointers that you have to keep a note of, first one that we were discussing that the self object in Post-condition block refers to the attributes of the instance or the resource that is under the evaluation. So this specific object is available only in Post-condition because the attributes will be available after the resources are created. So this is a pointer. Remember this cannot work in precondition because in precondition the condition is checked before the object is evaluated. So if object is not yet evaluated, if it is not yet created, how will it get the attributes. So this is a part to remember here specifically for the attributes that are available after application. Second important pointer is that the precondition and postcondition are available in Terraform version 1.2.0 and later. So if your organization is using any version that is lower than this, then you will have to upgrade in order to make use of these. And the third important pointer is that the precondition postconditions are supported for resources. This is something that we have seen. However it is also supported for data sources and outputs. So that's the high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.