Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore few more examples related to preconditions and postconditions so that we understand the flexibility that we can achieve with these features. And it will also give us proper insights into what are the things that can be achieved. So the example number one is something similar to what you see in the screenshot. Now, generally only after reading the code, you should be able to understand what this does because the code is pretty simple. So what you are doing here you are creating a local file called as app dot txt and this local file will have a content of sample app content. Now in the lifecycle block you have a precondition. What is the precondition. You are using a function called as file exist and you are saying db dot txt. So what this will do. This will verify if a file called as db dot txt exists in the same location where the app dot txt is getting created. If db dot txt file is not present, then the app dot txt will not be created. Now the logic behind this at an overview. Many times what happens is whatever application that you deploy, it requires some kind of a DB credentials. So it will ask you for a DB credential files or something. So if a DB credential file is not present at a specific location, then the application related configuration can also not start. So this is a logic that you might be able to implement it in a much more mature form. However, this is what we are planning to achieve as part of this local file example here. So let's go ahead and quickly try this out. Now for today's video we have a file called as examples hyphen hyphen post.tf. And I already have the overall code that is created here, so that we can save the time and focus more on the overall learning. Considering that we already know on how to write the basic precondition block. So let's go ahead and save this and we'll go ahead and try this out now from the CLI. You can do a terraform init to ensure that you have the local provider available. Now if you do a Terraform plan here immediately you see our precondition has failed and it says db dot. TXT file must exist. Now in our folder of KP labs hyphen Terraform. You see that we do not have the db dot txt file present. So I go ahead and I'll quickly create a new file called as db dot txt. So this is ultimately in fact let me quickly show you. So this has the extension of dot txt in case if you'd like you can also create a db dot txt file from Visual Studio. Alright, I'll just remove it now. I'll clear the screen. We'll go ahead and do a terraform plan. And this time you see our plan is working perfectly well. So I hope with this you understood the example. Number one which uses the precondition with the function of file exist The example number two is also very similar, but this time we are using multiple condition using the and operator. Here. So what it is doing again it is creating a file called as app dot txt with the same content which is sample app content. This time the first function is it verifies whether the file of db dot txt exists or not. And in the second function it verifies whether this file is not empty or not. For example, if db dot txt is empty, then what sense does it make? Because application will fetch this file to get some contents like database credentials and so on. And this is the reason why both of these condition are added as part of the precondition. So let's go ahead and try this out. So from this code we'll simply go ahead and use and operator. This time we'll use a file function with the same path. So path dot module is basically the same folder in which we are running the Terraform plan and terraform apply, and here we are saying it should not be empty. All right. So it should not be empty is what we are specifying. Let's save this. Now at this stage we have the DB dot txt which is empty. So I'll clear the screen. I'll do a terraform plan. Let's see what it states. The resource precondition has failed. So in here it will not show you which of this condition has failed. This is a point to note. So if you are using multiple ends, then you'll have to manually verify which of the function has failed here. So now what you can do in the db dot txt. Just for an example, I'll say database user is equal to admin db pass is equal to pass 123. Just for an example, so that this is a non-empty file. And this time if you do a Terraform plan you see things are working perfectly well. All right. So the example number two was specific to show you that you can use multiple set of operators here. And multiple functions can be evaluated to finalize the result of a specific condition. Now the example number three is related to referencing to a variable value as part of the precondition. Now again the code is very simple. What we are trying to do here we are trying to create a file called as sensitive dot txt which contains some sensitive data. And in the precondition we have said that if the var environment is equal to production, then only go ahead and create this file with the sensitive content. If the environment is some other then production, say development, staging QA, then the sensitive dot txt should not be launched. And here you also have a variable of environment. So let's go ahead and also verify this. Now I already have this code available. You can fetch it from the GitHub repository. So now you have a variable of environment which does not have a value and a condition is very simple. Why not environment equal to equal to production. So let's save this from the CLI. I'll do a terraform plan since we have not given a value to the environment variable you can specify. Let's say I will say environment is development. I'll press enter immediately. We got an error stating sensitive file can only be created in production. So now let's go ahead and try production. This thing and you see it is working perfectly well. And the example number four is related to multiple precondition. Now generally we have seen that as part of the condition we make use of the and operator to combine multiple functions or multiple condition in one. However this is not always suitable in case if you like, you can also have multiple set of precondition as part of the life cycle block. One of the benefit of this multiple set of precondition is that for each precondition, you can have a separate error message. So this way it becomes much more simpler if you combine multiple things using the and operator and you get an error, then it is difficult for you to troubleshoot which exact function has failed as part of the condition here. So this is also something that you should keep a note of. And many of the organizations, they use these kind of blocks so that the error message can be understood better by the end users. So let me also quickly show you this. So what you can do, you can just copy the precondition block one more time. All right. And within here what you can say file exist. Within I'll say path dot module. So this is the location where our configuration files are present followed by app dot txt. All right. And within here we'll say app dot txt must be present I'll save this now from the CLI. Whenever we do a terraform plan, it asks us for the environment. So the first part is succeeded. However, we still got an error which states call to unknown function file exists. So we made a small typo. So let's replace this with the right name. All right we will clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan. We'll add a value of production. This time you see our file exist. Function failed because the app dot txt was not present. So now you can just specify app dot txt. Again we are not checking whether this is empty or not. We are just checking whether this file exists or not. Once then you can do a terraform plan again. You can specify production environment and things are working perfectly well. All right. So I hope with these set of examples the overall topic of pre-conditions and post-conditions have become much more clear. And with this we'll conclude today's video.