Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about a sensitive parameter again a important topic from security perspective. So let's get started. Now one thing that we have to keep a note of. In fact, you might have also observed that whenever you run commands like terraform, plan or terraform apply, you will see that Terraform is showing you the values associated with the attributes associated with the resources that are defined in the CLI output. For example, you have a file called as local underscore file. And these are the attributes here. So it is showing you the value associated with it in plain text. For example file name is password dot txt the content of the file that will be stored after the file will be created is also shown. For example, here it says super secret password. So this is available in plain text as part of the CLI output. And also you will see that in the logs also this might be visible. All right. So for many of the use cases you do not want this specific approach to be added. So it is very important that whatever Terraform code that you design, you have to make it in such a way that no sensitive information is directly available out of the box as part of the CLI output or even logs, and this ensures security. Now, generally in production environments, whenever you will be working, whenever sensitive value is involved, then you have to make use of the sensitive parameter to avoid the information leakage. So whenever you include a sensitive parameter as part of the code, this ensures that you do not accidentally expose this important information in the CLI output as well as log output. For example, let's take this simple code snippet here. What this does. This is a resource of type local file. So all it does is it creates a local file. The file name is password dot txt. And in the content we have specified variable of sensitive underscore content. Now this sensitive underscore content has a default value of super secret password. Now at this stage when you do a Terraform apply, this super secret password will be visible as part of the CLI. This is something that we do not want. So in order to avoid that you add a sensitive parameter is equal to true. Now what will happen is whatever output you will get in CLI instead of the super secret password, you will just see sensitive value. All right so this is the main advantage of sensitive parameter. Let's go ahead and try this out practically post which will be discussing things in more detail. Now for today's demo we have a very simple resource block of local file that will create a simple file. The content is super secret password, and the file name that will be created is called as password dot. TXT. Now from the CLI. Let's go ahead and quickly do a terraform init in case if you do not have. And we'll go ahead and do a terraform plan here as expected by default. You see Terraform is also showing you the content of super secret password that will be stored in password dot txt. So this is something that you do not always want. Now one of the approaches to avoid this is by making use of the sensitive parameter. Now what someone might try to do. So they'll try to do an alternate approach where they'll specify a variable of say password. And within here the default value they'll try and add this specific password here. All right. And in the content they'll say var dot password. All right. So from here it is assumed that since the password is not present here in the content, when you do a Terraform plan it will not appear. But that is not the case when you do a Terraform plan. Things will get computed. And this specific word or password will be computed with this one. Let's go ahead and also check this. So I'll clear the screen I'll do a terraform plan again. And as expected in the content, you see super secret password is visible. So in order to avoid this, you can make use of the sensitive parameter. So let me quickly show you how this works. So I'll say sensitive as true. All right I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Now when you do a Terraform plan here. This time you see the content is marked as sensitive value. And this is a much more better approach of defining things in your production level. Terraform code. Now at this stage we had to append a sensitive is equal to true to the variable here. Now generally what HashiCorp does is for many of the resource types where sensitive values might be present. HashiCorp also gives us an approach where, without specifying the sensitive of true, there will be a different resource type that can achieve this use case. For example, if you look into the local file resource here As we were discussing all this does is it creates a file here. Now you will see that you also have one more resource of local underscore sensitive underscore file. Now if you look into the example usage the approach is very simple. The only change here is the resource. So let's copy this and let's go ahead and replace the local file with local sensitive file. I'll in fact also manually add the password here. All right let's do that temporarily I'll be removing the variable I'll save the change. Now from the CLI if I do a Terraform plan here you see automatically even without sensitive parameter set to true, the content here is the sensitive value. So this is one important part to remember. Again this might not be available for all the resource types, but generally you will have to read the documentation associated with this where you see in the note they specified. If the file content is sensitive, use the local sensitive file resource instead. Now, one more important thing that you have to keep a note of is that in case if you try to reference a sensitive value in the output values, Terraform will immediately give you an error. For example, let's take this scenario where you are using a local file and also a variable of super secret password, and the sensitive parameter is set to true. Now in case here, if you try to use output values to output this specific password to the CLI, this will not work. If you try this out immediately, Terraform will give you an error, primarily because the password should ideally not be visible as part of the CLI. Let's in fact also try this out. So within here, in case if you say output of pass and within here say value is equal to. Let's copy this local dot sensitive underscore file .4. content. Now ideally what will happen is Terraform should output the content of this specific whatever value is there, it should output it as part of the CLI. So let's try this out. So I'll say Terraform plan. Now at this stage it is showing the content at sensitive value. But the overall operation has failed primarily because of the output value here. So this way Terraform is much more mature. It has said that the sensitive data is present, and this is the reason why it is immediately giving you an error. Now in case if you want to proceed, there is also an approach here. We'll be discussing it in a moment here. In fact, let's do that before we proceed to look into the other aspect. So in case if you still want that the output block should not fail, then what you can do is you can specifically say sensitive is equal to true. So this way your plan or apply operation will not fail, but in the CLI output or the output logs, you will not see the content that is part of the output block. Let me in fact show you this. So generally, if I still want to continue without an error, I say sensitive is equal to true. You can add the block here. I'll save the change this time. When we do a terraform plan, you see the error went away. So in fact, let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and do a terraform. Apply with a yes. At this stage the apply is completed. However, in the outputs here the pass is equal to sensitive. So in the CLI output still the password will be marked as sensitive. Now in your directory you will have a password dot. TXT file. If you open this up it should have your password whatever you had defined. Now the question that comes is why do you want the output section to be defined, but not the content to be available as part of the CLI output? And the answer to this is the state file. Now, if you open up the terraform.tf state file, one thing that you will notice is that there is an output section here with the value of super secret password. Many a times what happens is that there are different Terraform projects that are being managed by different teams. That will take your terraform.tf state file, it will read it, and it will fetch the value associated with the output section. So when you have multiple teams collaborating, reading your terraform.tf state file to find the value. This is where this part of output is very useful. But you also have to ensure that the sensitive is set to true so that in the CLI output at least you will not find the sensitive information. Now there are also ways in which terraform.tf state file can be protected, because the tf state file becomes the weak point here because it contains this sensitive information. So that aspect is of a different video at this stage. Our main aim was to understand the sensitive parameter and its importance. So an important pointer that you have to keep a note of is that even if you specify a sensitive parameter, it will not protect the state file or it will not redact any information from the state file in the state file. Things will be visible. The aim of sensitive parameter is to protect your CLI output and the logs. Now, before we conclude one more interesting thing that you have to keep a note of is that for various mature providers like AWS provider Terraform already has a logic where it can detect some sensitive information specifically for resources like RDS, and it will automatically redact it and it will show it as a sensitive value, even though you have not mentioned it as sensitive. In fact, let's also look into this. So currently for the resource of AWS db instance. So this basically creates a database in AWS. Now generally whenever you create a database, there are certain configurations that you might need. For example, here, if you look into the basic usage, you have the database password, you have the database username and so on. Now let's say that you copy this resource block. And when you add it as part of your configuration here you see that password is available in plain text. I'll save this. Now let's go ahead and do a terraform init. In case if you do not have the AWS provider plugin, great. Now if you do a Terraform plan here, you will expect that the password should be visible in the CLI output. However, that is not the case. Now if you see the username here is visible, but the password value is considered as a sensitive value even though you have not provided the sensitive parameter. So the AWS provider plugin has the appropriate logic to achieve this. Again, not for all the resource, reasons. But for some of the important resources like DS, where the password is present. Now, in case if you also want that the username should not be highlighted in the output, you can create the variable here. In fact, let's do that. Variable of db user. The default value let's say admin. And within here you can say sensitive of true. All right. And within the username you can say var dot db underscore user. All right I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan. And this time username. Also you see sensitive value. So depending upon the use case. And again it depends upon the organization to organization what value you want to consider as sensitive. You can go ahead and plan things accordingly. So that's a very high level overview about the sensitive parameter. And with this we'll conclude today's video.