Hey everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we will be having an overview about the HashiCorp vault. Now, HashiCorp vault allows organizations to securely store their secrets like tokens, passwords, certificates, along with a proper access management for protecting those secrets. Now, one of the common challenges that you will see nowadays in most of the organizations is related to the secrets management. So here the secrets can include database, password, AWS access, secret keys, API tokens, encryption keys and others. Now, from what it has been observed and even from my personal experience, most of the users will go ahead and store these secrets within their notepad. And this is one of the primary reasons why a lot of organizations are implementing HashiCorp vault within their production environments. Now, in the earlier lectures, we were discussing at a high level overview about the Dynamic Secrets feature in vault on how exactly vault can quickly go ahead and generate, as well as send the database credentials or access secret keys back to the user. so. Apart from sending it, it also makes sure that these secrets are rotated effectively. So in the organization that I was working with, a lot of developers would request access to the developer database and so on. So what configuration we had in vault was the vault would supply the username and password to the developer, but this username and password would only be valid for 24 hours. So tomorrow developer, when they sign in they'll again have to request for a newer database credentials. So when the database credentials are rotated in a regular basis, this brings down the chance of the database breach as well as the confidential data being leaked. Now, initially when the vault was launched, vault was primarily a CLI based tool. So everything and anything that you wanted to configure in vault, you had to do via CLI. And initially for users who are learning vault, that used to be a little challenging task. Now, one of the great features that HashiCorp has introduced is a great guy for the vault. So not only it helps us in learning things in a quicker way, but we can also go ahead and manage things securely. So let's do one thing. Let's have a quick demo of the HashiCorp vault post, which we'll be discussing about other aspects. So currently I am in the HashiCorp vault console. So this is the GUI for the HashiCorp vault. Now here you see that there are multiple secret engines that are available. Now. At this moment of time, you do not really need to know about this, but I wanted to show you some of the interesting features. Now, one of the interesting things that we were discussing is about the dynamic secrets. So let me have a quick demo on this. So let's say a developer has logged in to the HashiCorp vault, and he needs the access and secret key for AWS. So all he has to do is he has to click on generate. And immediately you see the HashiCorp vault has provided the access key, the secret key associated with the AWS. So your developer can go ahead and use these credentials for local testing. And after some amount of time, again, depending upon the configuration, the HashiCorp vault will go ahead and delete these access and secret keys. So maybe tomorrow when the developer logs in again, he'll have to generate a new set of credentials. So this is associated with the AWS. Now let me also show you the database related aspect. So let's say a developer needs his database credentials for testing. So he can send a request to the vault. And the vault will immediately send a username and the password to the developer. And if you see the lease duration is one hour. So what would happen is after one hour, these username and password would be removed and the developer would have to regenerate this credentials. Or maybe if he wants to use this credentials, he can renew it at a regular interval. Now, in a similar way, let's assume that a developer wants to log in to a Linux instance. Again, he can request to the vault, and vault can supply a key over here and also the username. So the developer can make use of the username as well as the key to go ahead and log in to the Linux instance. Great. So that is associated with the dynamic secrets that gets generated. Apart from that, vault also has a lot of interesting functionality. Vault can help you encrypt the data. So here if you see you can go ahead and encrypt the data. So let's say an application wants to go ahead and implement the encryption decryption functionality. Now instead of building the entire logic, the application can directly make use of vault to perform the encryption. So let's say this is the plain text data. So when you go ahead you can do a encrypt. And you see vault has gone ahead and encrypted this specific data for you. And at a later stage when you want to decrypt it, vault can also do the same. Now apart from that, vault also has a lot of features related to hash data related to the random generation of data and so on. So we'll be discussing in great detail about other features that are part of the vault in the subsequent videos. now. Apart from that, one of the great benefits of vault is that once you integrate it with the necessary backends within your organization, your life will become much more easier and you can focus on the right work. So we have seen on how vault can immediately send the database credentials, the Linux related credentials, the AWS related access secret keys to the developer. So imagine let's assume that there are 200 or 300 developers within your organization, and all of them needs the database credentials. So the database guy would spend a lot of time just generating those credentials. So that is a bit of a pain. So instead of that when you have vault, vault can do all of those things for you. So the major aspects related to the overall access management can be taken over by vault. Great. So that's the overview about HashiCorp vault. Now again we'll be discussing about other features of vault in great detail in the subsequent videos. So with this we'll conclude today's video. I hope this video has been informative for you and I look forward to see you in the next video.