Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we will be discussing at a high level overview about the vault provider. Now in the earlier video we had a great high level overview about the HashiCorp vault product. Now, as we know that Terraform has hundreds of providers that allows it to integrate with various other services. One of the popular providers is vault. So let's go ahead and look more into it. So at a high level overview, the vault provider allows Terraform to read from right to and configure the HashiCorp vault. So let's say that you have a vault. And within vault there is a secret called as DB underscore creds. And under this you basically have the username of the database and the password of the database. So let's say that you want to connect to the database. Or let's say you want to create a new database altogether. And the username and the password of that database should be the one that is part of the vault. So for various use cases like this, you can go ahead and inject them into Terraform. So if you look into this screenshot, we are basically making use of a provider of vault. And we are also giving the appropriate address where the vault is running. And then we are basically referencing to the path where this secret is stored, which is secret slash DB underscore creds. So what this will do, it will go ahead and get this admin and password one two, three as the overall output. So this is the high level overview of the vault provider. Let's have a quick demo. So for today's demo I have vault up and running. And we have secret over here. So under secret let's go ahead and create a new secret of DB creds. And in the secret data you can say pass admin and password 123. All right once. Then you can go ahead and save this contents. Now from the vault itself, you can easily read the contents over here provided you have permission. So if you see you can easily read the contents. However, you can also get it from Terraform. So within Terraform I have a simple file called as vault.tf. Within your first we have to use the provider of vault. So this is the vault provider. And we also have to specify where exactly the vault is running. So you'll have to specify the IP address of vault. And the next important part is let's say that we want to fetch some data. So we want to fetch the DB credits that we have created. And hence we have given this path of secret slash DB creds. All right. And to verify if this data is actually been published, we are basically creating a simple output called as vault underscore secrets. And we are basically referencing to the vault generic secret, which is this one, followed by the name which is demo, followed by a specific attribute which is data underscore JSON. So the first thing that we'll do is we'll do a terraform init. So this will go ahead and install the vault provider. Great. So it has been initialized. And now let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply. So here we are getting an error stating no secret found at secret DB hyphen creds. So if you look into vault under secret. So if you see under secret here we have DB underscore creds. So a small typo. Let's change to DB underscore creds once. Then you can do a Terraform apply. All right. So since we had sensitive here we do not really get a output. Now within here if we look into the Terraform state you can quickly identify basically in the output you have vault secrets. And within here you have the value of admin and password 123. So when you are basically creating a new database or new RDS instance, you can basically get the username and password from vault, and the database credentials would be used according to that. Now, along with that, vault has multiple engines. One among them is the AWS engine. So what this basically allows you to do is it allows you to generate the IAM user credentials. So basically if I click on generate over here this will generate the access key and the secret key over here. So generally if you are using vault you can even tell Terraform that it should make use of this access key and this secret key to go ahead and perform some operations on AWS. So you no longer have to configure a access and secret key inside Terraform, so no hard coding is required. Terraform can connect to vault, fetch the latest access and secret key, and perform the required operations on AWS. So this is the very high level overview of vault provider. Now one important part that you need to note from exam perspective is that interacting with vault from Terraform causes any secrets that you read and write to be persist in both the Terraform state file. So basically, if you are reading some secrets as well as passing to another service, basically those secrets will be part of the Terraform state file. So you have to make sure that your Terraform state file is secure to ensure that the secrets are no longer exposed to. So this is a very high level overview about vault provider. Now do note that since this is a Terraform course and not a vault course, we have not really looked into how we can configure vault from scratch. If you are interested to learn more about vault in detail, we have a dedicated vault course available based on the official HashiCorp Vault Associate certification, which you can look forward to. However, from the Terraform exams perspective, a very high level overview about vault provider and this important note is something that you need to look forward for. So with this, we will conclude today's video.