Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, our main aim is to understand the basics of meta argument. However, before we do that, one of the prerequisite here is to also understand the basics of resource behaviour. Now at this stage we have been doing a lot of Terraform practicals and this is the reason why our understanding about resource behaviour is already good. But before we go ahead and proceed with the meta argument, just for the sake of completeness, first let's go ahead and revise the basics of resource behaviour post, which will understand on why meta argument is so useful in Terraform. Now, at this stage, we already know that a resource block declares that you want a particular infrastructure object to exist with a given settings. So if you include this resource block as part of your Terraform configuration, and if you do a Terraform apply, Terraform will assume that you need a infrastructure resource with these configuration, and hence the EC2 instance will also be created. And if you remove this specific resource block from your TF file and then you do a terraform apply. Terraform will assume that you no longer need this specific resource and the resource will be destroyed. This is the basics we already know because we have done this practically many times. Now, before we start with the meta argument, let's quickly revise on how Terraform applies a specific configuration that you add in the tf file. First is that the Terraform creates the resource that exists within the configuration file, but are not associated with the real infrastructure object in the state. So if a configuration is present in a TF file, but if the state file is empty or the state file does not have the appropriate infrastructure object, Terraform will go ahead and create it for you. Second is Terraform will destroy the resources that exist in the state, but no longer exists in the configuration. Similar to how we were discussing. If you remove the resource block in your TF file, Terraform will assume you do not need that specific resource object and the infrastructure will be removed. Third point here is that Terraform will update in-place place resource whose arguments have changed. For example, let's say that you have a security group rule that allows port 22 from everyone now instead of port 22. What you want. You want port 80 to be allowed from everyone. So in such cases, when you change the port 22 to port 80 from your security group configuration, then there will be a in-place resource update that will happen here. And the fourth pointer here is that Terraform will go ahead and destroy and recreate the resources whose arguments have changed, but which cannot be updated in place due to remote API limitation. This is also something that you will see. One example that I can say is let's say that you create a EC2 instance from a Linux Ami. Now you change the ami id from Linux Ami to windows Ami. So in this case Terraform cannot do a in-place update. Terraform will go ahead and it will destroy the entire EC2 instance based on Linux. And it will recreate a new EC2 instance based on windows. So depending upon what configuration you are changing as part of a given resource, they will either be a in-place update that will take place, or Terraform will completely destroy and recreate the resource entirely. All right. So these are some of the important pointers about how Terraform applies a specific configuration. Now let's discuss about some of the limitations that you might face in production environments. So what happens if you want to change this default behavior that we were discussing in the previous slide? For example, let's say that you have already created a resource through Terraform. Now someone has manually modified that resource directly from the AWS console or from the infrastructure console. Now, when you do a Terraform apply, Terraform will try to remove that manual change. However, what happens if you do not want that manual change to be removed and you want to ignore those changes. So this is something that does not fit the default behavior of Terraform, but it might be useful in the real world environment. So let's understand this in more detail where you are creating a EC2 instance and you are adding a tag. Let's say name is equal to Hello world. So when you do a terraform apply what will happen? A EC2 instance will get created with the tag key of name and tag value of Hello world. This is completely fine. Everything is managed through Terraform. Now let's assume that tomorrow someone has manually modified this infrastructure resource and they have added one more tag manually. And here the tag key is env and the tag value is production. So now what will happen is since this is not added through Terraform configuration, when you do a terraform apply Terraform will go ahead and it will remove this specific manually added tag. All right this is the default behavior. But what if you do not want the default behavior. What if you want some kind of a flexibility? Flexibility in terms of what? If you want to ignore this specific manual change. You want this manual change to be present without Terraform interfering with it. So when you have such kind of a use case where you want to change the default behavior of the resource object, this is where the meta argument comes into picture. Now, before we discuss more in detail about the meta argument, let's quickly look into this from a practical point of view so that our understanding remains to be clear. Now for today's video I have a file called as lifecycle hyphen meta hyphen argument tf and it contains a very simple resource configuration. All we are doing is we are creating a EC2 instance with type of T2 micro. And in the tags here we have defined a tag of name is equal to hello world, a very simple configuration. Let's go ahead and quickly do a terraform apply. So from the CLI I will quickly do a terraform apply. And I'll also do a auto approve. So our EC2 instance is getting created here. Great. And our EC2 instance is created. Now from the EC2 console we can see that our EC2 instance is successfully running. Now if you look into the tags here, you will see that there is a tag with a key of name and a value of hello world. This is completely fine. Now from the part we were discussing that you have a in-place updates and you have one more approach where Terraform will completely destroy and recreate the resource. Let me also quickly show you this. So when you change certain aspects of the resource, depending upon what exactly is changed, either in-place update will take place or the resource will be destroyed and recreated. So for example, let's say that I change the tag from name is equal to Hello world to Hello Earth. All right, I'll go ahead and save this change. Let's clear the screen. Now. When you do a Terraform plan, Terraform will go ahead and it will try to perform an in-place update on the resource. So that means the resource does not need to be destroyed and recreated. Just a specific configuration or a specific attribute of the resource will be changed. For example, here you see it is changing from Hello World to Hello Earth. Now I'll quickly do a Terraform apply with auto approve once again. Perfect. So the modification has been completed. Now if you'll quickly refresh here, you will see that the Hello Earth tag is being reflected as we see. So this is what the third pointer is all about. Now let's go ahead and try one more attribute change which would match the fourth pointer over here. All right. Now let's go ahead and find the ami ID which is not associated with Linux. So we have been using Amazon Linux. Let's go ahead and change the ami ID to that of windows. All right. So let's copy the windows ami ID here and let me add it here. I'll save the change. Now, when you do a terraform plan, at this stage, Terraform cannot update the existing resource because of the remote API limitation. Now this limitation is at the AWS level and now you see what it is trying to do. It is trying to destroy the EC2 instance. And it will launch a new EC2 instance from the newer Ami. All right. So if you have to quickly see this specific EC2 instance will be replaced. And you can also see that there is a force replacement here. Anyways, so let's go ahead and revert our change back to the older Ami. So with this I hope the third point and the fourth point is clearly understood. The next thing that we were discussing is that Terraform will go ahead. And when a manual modification is something that it observes, it will go ahead and revert it back. So let's also go ahead and try it out. So this time what I'll do for our Hello Earth instance, I'll add a new tag, let's say env or production. I'll go ahead and save it. Going back to our terminal this time when you do a terraform plan, Terraform will try and remove the env of production tag that we had just added. Alright, so here you see it is trying to remove this specific tag. So let's also quickly do a Terraform apply with auto approve. This is great. And now if I just open up the instance if we look into the tags you see the tag has been removed by Terraform. So at this stage we have been discussing about the default behavior in which Terraform works. Now what happens as we are discussing what happens if we want to change the default behavior? Because in production you might have various different use cases where you want to modify certain aspects on how terraform works. And one of the examples that we had taken here is that a manually added resource or manually added attribute to a resource must be ignored by Terraform so that it continues to exist. So if you want to achieve this, then you have to make use of meta argument. So at a very high level overview, Terraform allows us to include certain meta arguments inside the resource block, which allows us to achieve certain level of customization. So there are multiple meta arguments that you can define inside the resource block. So here you have a meta argument of life cycle that has been added inside this resource of AWS underscore instance and inside the life cycle meta argument you have specified ignore underscore changes is equal to tags. So now what this will do. This will ignore any changes that have been applied at a EC2 instance level manually. And what are the changes that it will ignore. It will ignore the tags specific changes. All right. So let's go ahead and try it out. So now let's say that I specify life cycle. And inside the life cycle meta argument I'll say ignore changes. And within here I'll just specify tags. Again you can have a lot of complexity here, but we are just understanding the basic of meta argument so that our concept is clear. I'll go ahead and I'll save this. Now let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and add the tag. Also I'll say env or production. Again let's verify if the tag is added successfully. And yes, it has been added. Now, since we have specified this meta argument, Terraform will now ignore the changes specific to tags as part of the overall plan, so any tag related modifications will completely be ignored. So let's go ahead and try it out. So let's do a Terraform plan once more. This time it should not show any changes. As expected, you see it is not detecting or it is not trying to revert the manually applied tag in the resource. Now, as soon as you remove this specific block of life cycle, let's save this. Let's do a terraform plan once more. This time it will detect it and it will try to revert to the base configuration that is defined. All right. So now you see it is trying to remove the tag of env of production. All right. So I hope with this at a high level overview you have started to understand what meta arguments allows us to do, which is to customize the behavior of the resource block in Terraform. Now one important part to remember is that there are multiple meta arguments that are allowed in Terraform. Lifecycle is one of the meta arguments. There are many others, so let's also quickly look into it at a high level overview. Now within Terraform there are multiple set of meta arguments. As we were discussing. You have depends on you have count You have for each. You have life cycle. We have provider. Life cycle is something that we were just exploring at a high level. Overview. Again, this matter argument is more detailed. There is a lot of customization that you can do. Maybe we'll leave it up to the upcoming videos about it, but at the overview you should know what a meta argument does and various different meta arguments here. Now note that there is also a meta argument called as provider. This is not a provider of AWS that we define at the start of the tf file. This is a different meta argument, which basically allows you to override the provider configuration to use for a specific resource. Again, whenever we go ahead and practically work on a specific meta argument, then it will become much more clear. But at an overview, you should know that there are multiple meta arguments in Terraform, and depending upon the use case that you face in production environment, you can use one among them. We will be discussing about these whenever required, but at this stage we will keep it simple and with this will conclude today's video.