Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the life cycle meta argument. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing about the basics of meta argument and how it allows us to perform certain level of customization, and it also allows certain level of flexibility related to the default resource behavior in Terraform. Now, the example that we had taken was the life cycle meta argument. And within the life cycle. Also, we were discussing about a very specific argument of ignore underscore changes. Now life cycle. Meta argument by itself is not limited to ignore underscore changes. There are many other arguments that are available that you can use to achieve a certain level of customization. So in today's video, at a very high level overview, we are going to discuss about what are the arguments that are available under the life cycle block and the importance of each one of them. So at an overview, there are four primary arguments that are available within the life cycle block. The ignore underscore changes is the one that we had already used for our demo. So I hope with this at an overview you understood what it does. However, there are various others. First one is create before destroy. So in this what happens is the new replacement object is created first and then the prior object is destroyed again. We are going to go ahead and discuss about many of these arguments in great detail in the upcoming video, but at the overview you should know what are the options and what is the flexibility that you can achieve with the lifecycle meta argument by itself. The second argument is also quite interesting, which is prevent destroy. So generally if you add this as part of your life cycle block, then you will not be able to go ahead and destroy the resource using the terraform destroy command. So sometimes there are many important resources like database and all in production environment. So you have to be very careful that they do not get terminated. And this is where the prevent destroy argument really plays an important role. You also have a replace triggered by. So in such cases it replaces the resources when any of the reference item changes. So this is also useful when there is a hard dependency in production environment here. All right. So again this is a very high level overview about the lifecycle meta argument. And again what are the flexibilities in terms of various arguments that you can add under the lifecycle block. That was the main aim of today's video. In the upcoming video, we will be discussing about some of the specific arguments in more detail. So with this we will conclude today's video.