Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about create Beforedestroy argument under the lifecycle block. Now before we go ahead and discuss about this argument in detail, it is important to understand one of the default behavior as part of the Terraform resource block. So by default, when Terraform must change a resource argument that cannot be updated in place due to the remote API limitation, Terraform will instead destroy the existing object and then create the new replacement object with the new configured argument. Now again, this might be a little confusing, so let's go ahead and understand this with a workflow diagram here where let's assume that you have defined a simple EC2 instance resource here. And we know that when you do a Terraform apply it will create a EC2 instance. Very simple to understand. Now let's say after few weeks you go ahead and you modify this specific resource block and what exactly you modified. You modified the ami ID so Ami is nothing but the operating system of the EC2. So today you are using Linux tomorrow. You have specified the windows related Ami id, so when certain attributes of resource block changes, then the infrastructure provider cannot update the resource in place. The entire resource has to be created anew. So in such cases, when you have certain attributes that are changed, like the operating system, what Terraform will do. Terraform in this case, first it will destroy the existing instance that is running. This is the first thing that will happen. All right. So the destroy first. Once it is destroyed then a new EC2 instance will be created based on the new operating system that you have specified. So this is the default behavior on how things work. But one of the issues in production environment is that many a times what you want is you want the new EC2 instance to be running before the previous infrastructure resource gets destroyed. This is quite important from production point of view, and if you want to achieve this level of flexibility, then you will have to use the create before destroy argument under the lifecycle block. Now, before we discuss more in detail about it, let's look into this default behavior from practical point of view post, which will be discussing about the argument perspective. Now for today's practical I have a file called as create hyphen before hyphen destroy.tf. And again we have a simple EC2 instance resource block that is defined. And just for simplicity, to save time, I have also run the Terraform apply. So the EC2 instance specified in this block is running. So if you will see from the AWS console we have one EC2 instance that is running. Now let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and change this specific Ami ID to a different operating system so that we can understand the overall workflow. So let's do one thing. Let's go to launch instances. And within here again, there are multiple operating system images that are available. The current one that we are using is Amazon Linux. So you can switch to any other one. For example, let's say we will switch to the ubuntu over here. Let's copy the ami ID of ubuntu and let's replace this with the newer ami id. I'll save the change now from the CLI. If I'll quickly do a Terraform plan. What this should do. This should go ahead and show that one instance should be destroyed and one will be created. Let's quickly look into it. So as expected here you see one to add, one to destroy. This is as expected. So let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply. I'll just do a auto approve and let's see what exactly it does through default configuration. Whether it creates a new EC2 instance first or it destroys the existing EC2 instance first. So first you see what it is doing. It is This, destroying the existing EC2 instance. So let's quickly wait for the instance to get destroyed. And once the destruction has been completed here you see the first part was destruction. The next part is creation. So only after it destroyed the original. Now it is creating the newer one. So this is the default configuration that we were discussing in the slide. So now using the create before destroy argument, the overall behavior is seen so that the new replacement object is created first and the prior object is destroyed after the replacement object is created. Now this can be quite useful in production environment. Again, it all depends upon the use cases. So let's also look into this workflow now in the resource block, this time under the life cycle block here we have specified create before destroy is equal to true. So now you have the first resource block. Based on this resource block the EC2 instance was created. Now what you did this Ami ID was changed. And now if you run the terraform, apply what it will do. Terraform will go ahead and it will first create the newer EC2 instance. All right. So create is first. And once it is created then the older EC2 instance will be removed or the older resource will be removed. So this is the basic of create beforedestroy argument under the lifecycle block. So let's also go ahead and quickly look into it from a practical point of view. Now, since we had already changed the Ami to Ubuntu One, let's go ahead and replace this back to the Amazon Linux and also look into the workflow. So let's do one thing. Let's get back the Amazon Linux Ami. All right we'll get the Amazon Linux Ami. Here I'll copy this. We'll replace it over here. Along with that. This time we'll be adding a new life cycle block I will say life cycle. And we'll say create beforedestroy is equal to true a very simple argument here. We'll go ahead and we'll save the change. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. Now, again, similar to the previous plan, it should show one instance to delete and one instance to add. So let's verify this. As expected, the planned result is similar to what we were discussing. So let's do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve. Now this time you see it is first creating the new EC2 instance. And once it is created the older instance will be terminated. Let's also verify this. Great. So after creation is completed then the terraform is going towards the destruction of the older EC2 instance here. All right. So I hope with this you understood the basics of create Beforedestroy argument. Again, make sure that you terminate all of the resources that you create through Terraform to avoid unexpected charges. So with this we will conclude today's video.