Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the prevent destroy argument that you can use as part of the life cycle block. Now, from the name itself, we can identify that this specific argument will allow us to tell Terraform to prevent any destruction of resource. For example, if you have this under the life cycle block of a resource, and when you try to destroy this resource through commands like terraform, destroy, etc., then this will be prevented entirely. So let's go ahead and quickly look into it from practical point of view as well. Now for today's video I have a file called as prevent hyphen, destroy.tf. Again a very simple file which creates a simple EC2 instance. Now I have already run the Terraform apply, so our EC2 instance is running. So let me quickly show you. So you see you have a Hello Earth EC2 instance. This is already running so you can also replicate the same. Again this is quite simple. So now let's go ahead and first let's try to do a Terraform destroy. Let's see what it shows. And then we'll add this specific life cycle argument here. Now from the CLI if I run the Terraform destroy command let's try it out. As expected, it is trying to destroy one resource and it is asking for confirmation. I'll just do a no because we do not really want to destroy this resource. Now, sometimes what happens in production environment is that there are many dependencies due to which sometimes it can happen that an important resource like database can be destroyed. This is very risky. Now note that many a times infrastructure are managed not manually, but in an automated way through scripts or maybe through Jenkins, etc. so in such cases you do not want, in any case the important production systems to be destroyed. So in such cases, as we have discussed, you can use the life cycle. And in here you can say prevent underscore destroy is equal to true. I'll save this. Now once you have done that let's go ahead and try the Terraform destroy command once again. And immediately you see you got an error stating that the instance cannot be destroyed primarily because it has a life cycle of prevent, underscore, destroy, which is set. Now, before we conclude, certain points that you need to keep a note of. First one is that this specific argument can be used as a measure of safety against accidental replacement of objects that may be costly to reproduce, such as database instance. This is quite important from production point of view. Also a point to note is that since this argument must be present in the configuration for the protection to apply. Very important point to remember. Note that this setting does not prevent remote objects from being destroyed if the resource block were removed from the configuration entirely. For example, what happens if you remove this entire resource block here? So now what will happen when you run the Terraform apply? Then this specific instances will be destroyed. Let's also quickly look into it. So if I quickly do a terraform apply over here. Let's see what happens. You see it is trying to destroy the EC2 instance here. So this is what the second point is all about which states that although this specific argument prevents the destruction, but if you remove the entire configuration itself, then there is no way in which Terraform can know that this is an important resource and it should not be destroyed. So that's a very high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.