Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the ignore changes argument as part of the life cycle block. Now many a times in production environment, what happens is certain configuration of a EC2 instance or any other infrastructure object is modified by the process outside of Terraform. Now this can be any other automated solution. Sometimes there are manual changes that also happen to the EC2 instance. So when such thing happens when you run the Terraform plan or terraform apply, Terraform will go ahead and it will try to remove the manually applied change on the infrastructure object. And if you want to go ahead and ignore those changes, sometimes the changes are genuinely applied. You can make use of the ignore underscore change argument under the life cycle block. So if you see in this specific diagram under the life cycle you have ignore underscore changes. And then you specify the exact attribute that you want to ignore. Now a EC2 instance can have hundreds of attributes. Now do you want to ignore all of the 100 attributes or do you want to ignore a very specific attribute? In such case you can go ahead and specify this over here. So in this screenshot you have a tags attribute that is ignored. So Terraform even though when it detects that there are manually added tags it will ignore the changes. All right so let's do one thing before we proceed further, let me quickly show you this again. Practically post which will be discussing about things in more detail. Now for today's demo we have a file called as ignore hyphen changes.tf, which has a very simple resource definition. It creates a EC2 instance based on T2 micro instance type, and this instance has a tag of name and a value of hello Earth. Now I already have created a EC2 instance by running Terraform apply so you can also do that now. I do this generally to save time so that we can optimize the overall duration of the course. Now if you look into the tags, you have the tags here. Now if you go ahead and if you just add a random key value pair here, and when you do a Terraform plan, Terraform will detect that there were some manual changes that were applied to the infrastructure, and it will revert those changes. So let's quickly look into it. Alright, so it has quickly detected that there is one tag here and it is changing it to null. Alright, so we'll quickly do a terraform apply with auto approve so that the manually applied resource has been removed. Great. Now if you look into the instance in the tags, you should see that only one tag is present. Now, as we're discussing, if you want to ignore certain changes you can add as part of the life cycle block, let's add it. And I'll say ignore underscore changes. And within here you can specify various attributes. Here. For example I'll just specify tags because tags is something that we want to ignore. You can add various other things. We'll be checking that as well so that our concepts are better understood. So now that we have ignored the tags here. If we modify this once again, let's add some random tag key and value. Now when you do a Terraform plan, the manual changes in the tag part will be ignored. All right, so as expected no changes in the infrastructure. Now this is very simple to understand at this stage. Now we were discussing that in the ignore underscore changes. Apart from tags you can also specify various other attributes associated with the EC2 instance. One of the attributes, like instance type is something that you can add. So let's go ahead and try it out. So what we'll do we'll change the instance type from T2 micro to some different one. And then we'll specify it under the ignore changes and we'll look into the results. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and we'll quickly stop this EC2 instance. So this instance is now stopped. So now let's go ahead and we'll modify the instance type. Let's change the instance type from T2 micro to T1 micro. All right I'll say T1 micro. I'll apply the changes. All right. So now in the instance type you should see T1 micro here. Now from the terminal when you do a terraform plan once again as expected it will ignore the tags. But the instance type it will try to revert it back to T2 micro as expected. Here you see in the instance underscore type it is trying to change from T1 to T2 micro and only one thing is set to change. So now if you want to also ignore that you can specify it here I'll say comma and I'll say instance underscore type. All right. So this is the second attribute here. Now let's clear the screen. Let's run the Terraform plan once more. And this time you see it states no changes. Great. So I hope with this at an overview you understood about the ignore changes argument under the life cycle block. Now, before we conclude a few more important things that you have to keep a note of. First one is that instead of defining the list and inside the list, you specify various attributes that you want to ignore. Let's say in production environments, there are many of the attributes that are manually changed. So will you go ahead and write all of the attributes as part of the list? You might not want to. What you want. You want to ignore all of the changes just for simplicity. So in such cases, there is a special keyword called as all that instructs the terraform to ignore all of the attributes. So here you see in the ignore underscore changes you specify all. So in such case Terraform will go ahead and create and destroy the remote objects. But it will never propose updates to it because everything had been ignored. So let's go ahead and try it out. So instead of ignore changes here I'll say all and I'll save this. So let's do a Terraform plan once again. So again it should show no changes. Ideally as expected. You see, it is showing no changes. Now again, one thing that I wanted to clarify is that in case if you modify a specific attribute as part of the block, let's try it out. Instead of Hello Earth, let's say hello world. Once again, I'll save the change. Let's do a Terraform plan again. This time you see no changes. Your infrastructure matches the configuration. So it's not that only the manually modified aspects will be ignored, but even the aspects that are part of the Terraform configuration, the appropriate attributes will also be ignored. And this is the reason why the second part of this PPT point is very important, which states that Terraform in such case can create and destroy the remote objects, but it will never propose to update it even though you modify the configuration. All right. And this is good because this allows you great number of flexibility in production environments. So with this we'll conclude today's video.