Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about using Terraform from the perspective of automation environments. Now, when you look into the exam objective of the official Terraform professional certification. In fact, let's go a bit down now within here, if you look into point one A to one D, it is associated with Terraform init and its options plan, and its options apply and its options destroy and its options. Now at this stage init plan, apply and destroy are some of the standard commands that we run for almost all of the projects. However, the second part here is very important. These options that are available associated with each command might not always be required whenever you are running it manually as part of the CLI, but when it comes to the automation environments, they are absolutely required, without which your automation environment can get stuck for wide variety of use cases depending upon the project that is being used. And this is the reason why. Before we go ahead and discuss in detail about some of the very important options that are available for these set of commands. At an overview, it is important for us to understand from the perspective of how Terraform is used in an automated environments, and this lecture will act as a base for the subsequent videos that we will be discussing as part of this section. Now, at this stage, we have been using a very standard operator based workflow to create and manage environments using Terraform. So what does the workflow signify? The workflow has a user. There is a code that the user has created, and in order to deploy the code in the appropriate environment, what are the standard commands that the user runs? The first command is terraform init, second is Terraform plan, third is Terraform. Apply. Now this is something that we have been doing for almost all of the projects that we try. Now, when we discuss about the standard operator based workflow, there are certain advantages. First is that you have direct control over each step of the process. So after init you have control over plan. You can look into the plan file in detail. Then you have control over apply as well. And in case if there are any errors or the plan is not working as expected, it is easier to debug and troubleshoot because you already have the code file available for you in your workstation. Third benefit here again, you have a flexibility to make ad hoc changes. If things are not working, you can quickly change your code, run the plan again, verify if things are working, and you can run the apply subsequently. And the fourth benefit here again is that it is a simple setup. You don't really have to create the entire automation environment here. Now this standard operator based workflow also comes with disadvantages. What are the disadvantages? First one is that it is manual process and it is prone to error. So generally when you do a Terraform plan you will be able to review what are the changes that your code might be implementing. But if you want all of the other members from your team to review this, it is a little difficult because you are running the CLI commands as part of your local workstation. Second is that it is not really ideal for large scale environments where repetitive manual executions can be time consuming and error prone. So when you have larger enterprises where you have thousands of projects, it becomes quite a hassle, where every time you do a Terraform plan, you verify you get it verified from other team members as well before doing an apply. The third disadvantage, again, it relies heavily on the knowledge and expertise of the operator, and again, it can be a bottleneck if it is not well documented. And the fourth one is the availability of human operator. Now again, this is quite important. I remember in one of the organizations where I was working with generally, developer did not really have access to the AWS environment and in the development. Also, if they had to create the infrastructure for the application to run, they would contact the DevOps team to go ahead and create the infrastructure for them. Now the entire infrastructure was created and managed through Terraform for the entire organization. And many times it used to happen that the DevOps team was quite busy and they did not really have time to go ahead and deploy the infra for the development team. Now, apart from DevOps team, security team also had full access to the AWS environment and the developer used to come to us saying that, hey, can you create a infrastructure in the development environment for me because the DevOps team guys seems quite busy. So in such cases, whenever we get time, we used to go ahead and create the infrastructure because the overall code was already created as a base for the development team infrastructure, and we just had to modify a few things and deploy the infrastructure for them through Terraform. So again, the availability of human operator again is quite important. So at a later stage, what happened was since the development team also increased in the organization, it became difficult to manually go ahead and deploy the infrastructure for them. So later a Jenkins based approach were used where developer team, whenever they require the infrastructure, they would log into Jenkins. They would configure few options related to customization and the entire infrastructure like EC2 instance load balancer database. Everything was created for them through Terraform via Jenkins. All right. So I hope with this you understood the importance of point number four related to the availability of human operator. This again is quite a bottleneck specifically for large scale organizations where Terraform is being used to create and manage infrastructure. And this is the reason why generally in medium to large scale organizations nowadays, you see that the standard operator based workflow is not used. Instead, a automation based workflows are generally used. Now, when we discuss about the automation based workflow, it would typically mean that a infrastructure is created and managed using Terraform, however, with some form of automation. So let's go ahead and quickly look into it from diagrammatic perspective. So you'll typically have a git repository where your Terraform code is present. And the standard CLI commands like init, plan and apply are not used manually as part of your CLE. Instead, there will be some kind of an automation environment, and this automation environment will take care of running these commands. So for example, whenever a new code is committed as part of the master branch in git automation environments will go ahead and quickly detect it. And the application would be deployed as part of the cloud provider. And again, there is a lot of customization that you can do, like approvals needed and various customization. We are just discussing it at a high level overview here. The second important part is related to the customization of workflow that we were discussing. Now, when you have a large scale organization, you do not always just want to do a terraform init, terraform plan and Terraform apply. There can be large set of complex workflows that you might have that needs to be used before the infrastructure gets deployed. Now one of the important workflow step generally you will see in larger scale organization. Let's explore that. So you have a git repository. The code from git repository goes to the automation environment now. Automation environment will not go ahead and directly deploy the code. Instead. First, it will go ahead and pass on this code to a security testing tool. Whatever is available, the security testing tool will go ahead and it will analyze your Terraform code, whether it has any secrets or based on whatever rules has been configured as part of your organization. After it has received a confirmation that all the test has been cleared, then it can go ahead and deploy the infrastructure. All right. So now let's do one thing before we proceed further, let's go ahead and typically look into this kind of workflow where automation environment is used post which will be discussing things in detail. Now for today's demo, I have a very simple CI CD pipeline that I have created in AWS for the overall demonstration. Now the name of the pipeline is Terraform Automation. Let's go ahead and quickly open this up. Let's explore what exactly the pipeline is doing. So the first stage here is the source stage where it is fetching the code from the git repository. In this case it is code commit. So similar to the diagram that we were seeing, the automation system will fetch the code from the git repository. The second one is that it is validating the code. Then you have the security scan. So it is scanning the code. It will check if there are any secrets or if the code is written with bad security practices. And based on that the automation environment can fail or it can proceed further now after it has done the necessary security scan. The next stage is related to Terraform test. Now, when we discuss about Terraform test, it is basically as part of the testing framework. And again this is used for integration or unit testing quite useful in larger environments. We will be discussing about this at a later part of the course. However just note that as part of the entire pipeline, Terraform tests are also running now. After all of these stages are completed, the next stage is related to the manager approval. So manager can go ahead and verify. This manager can check what exactly is being deployed and pose. This manager can approve or deny based on the use case over here. After manager approves, the code gets deployed to the production environments. Now when you have these number of steps, now again these steps are quite less in enterprises. You will have more number of steps as part of the overall automation environments. So let's say that you have a standard operator based workflow. And you have to manually do each and every step over here, manually fetch the code from git, manually validate, manually run the security scan against the code, then run the Terraform test, get the manager approval based on what exactly is being created, and so on. This is quite a hassle. And again, as we are discussing, this is the reason why the standard operator based workflow is generally not used for larger environments. So in fact, let's do one thing just for simplicity to understand how things work. We'll go ahead and quickly run this automation pipeline so that we understand each and every step here. So let's go ahead and release the change. So it will go ahead and start the overall pipeline here. The first one is that it will fetch the code from the git repository, whatever is configured as part of the pipeline. All right. So you see it has first fetched the code from git repository. Now in fact let me also quickly show you what the code looks like. So if I quickly open this within here we have the Terraform repo. Now in this repo we have a simple security group resource over here which creates a security group rule on port 22. So only the IP addresses ranging from one 7231 will be allowed in the security group. Now, once the source stage has been completed, it is now at a build stage where it will be validated, it will be security scanned, and it will go through Terraform test that have been created for this code. So let us go ahead and quickly wait for a moment. The validation stage is completed. Now is the time for security scan stage. All right. So it took around 2 to 3 minutes. And all of these three steps have been completed. Now before the code gets deployed to the production environment there is a manager approval step that is also required. Let's go ahead and do that. So when you do a review it is asking for approve or reject. Now how will manager decide whether it needs to be approved or reject. He can go ahead and quickly check each of these stages. Check if the infrastructure that is getting deployed is really as expected and then he can approve it. For example, if you look into the security scan stage, let's go a bit down. Now within here there is a tool of checkov that is being used as part of this. So you see it is checking wide variety of rules. Ensure no security group allows egress from 0000. And there are so many rules based on which it is analyzing the code, and it has now identified that all of the checks are passed, and this is the reason why the overall check of securities can has also completed successfully. So after manager verifies that everything is as expected, he can just add and approve. We'll do a submit and only after manager does a submit, then the code will be deployed in the deploy stage. So let's also quickly wait for this. So here the code is getting deployed. Basically a infrastructure object is getting created. Now what is the infrastructure object that is getting created. It is a simple security group called as allow underscore TLS underscore test with one ingress rule. And now if we verify the infrastructure object has been succeeded. So if you go to security groups you will see that one security group has been created. And inside the security group there is a ingress rule associated with this Cidr block. All right. So I hope at a very high level overview, you understood what kind of workflow you typically see when you have some kind of automation environment like CI, CD pipeline that is used to create and manage the infrastructure. Now when we discuss about this automation component, it is not always necessary that it is a complex CI CD pipeline. Many of the organizations you will see that you have some kind of complex shell scripts or Python programs that are used to design the entire automation workflow. However, for larger organizations, you will not really see the automation component related to point one, but you have a very mature CI CD pipeline based workflow that is being used. Again, the tool that is used as part of CI, CD can change depending upon the environment. It can be achieved using the HCP Terraform which is Terraform cloud. It can be achieved using code pipeline that we saw in AWS. It can be achieved using other workflow tools as well. So now that we understand at a high level overview on how Terraform might get integrated as part of the automation environment, now it is essential for us to understand the importance of CLI options as part of the automation environments. Now, generally, as we are discussing, when we discuss about manual environment and automated environment at a high level overview, the core command will remain to be the same. For example, in manual environment you will have terraform init Terraform plan, terraform apply. This is something that we already know. Now when you are running Terraform in an automation environment, this command by directly are generally not used. Instead, there are multiple set of CLI options that are added as well. For example, in automation environment you will use something like terraform init hyphen input equal to false. Instead of terraform plan you will have terraform plan input false. No color out is equal to TF plan and maybe instead of Terraform apply you will have Terraform apply tf plan followed by auto approve. So depending upon the environment, depending upon the project, the number of CLI options that you will generally add as part of automation environment will also differ here. And this is the reason why when we discuss about the exam. Objective number one A to one D. This set of options are important specifically from the perspective of automation environment. If you do not add the right set of CLI options, it can happen that your automated environments might get stuck or do not work as expected. And this is the reason why it is important for us to understand some of the important CLI options that you can use, along with the standard commands like init, plan, apply, and few others so that we understand the deployment of Terraform both at a manual environment level and the automated environment level. So this is a very high level overview. And again this lecture will act as a base. In the upcoming video we are going to discuss about the CLI options that are important for us to understand not only from the perspective of exams, but also from the perspective when you configure Terraform for automated environments. So with this we'll conclude today's video.