Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the data type of list. Again, this is a very important data type and in a lot of arguments for resources list is one of the common data type that is required. So with this said let's go ahead and understand more about it. Now at a very high level overview list, data type allows us to store a collection of values for a single variable or an argument. So this collection of values is very important. Now let us also quickly understand this specific pointer. For example, for a resource of AWS underscore instance where a simple EC2 instance gets created. So here you have an instance type which is T3 dot micro. So here you have a single value associated with the argument of instance underscore type. Only single value is present. But for many of the arguments single value is not expected. Multiple set of values can also be expected. In such cases, the list data type is also used, which allows you to store a collection of values where multiple set of values can be expected for a specific variable or an argument. Now, the list data type is represented by a pair of square brackets, something similar to you see, you have a square bracket here, a square bracket here, and inside the square bracket you have multiple set of values in a comma separated sequence. So you have the first value A, then you have a comma, second value, comma, third value, and so on. And as we were discussing the list data type is useful when multiple values needs to be added for a specific argument. So if you take a simple example this is a variable. The type is list. And if you see the default value here in the square brackets, you have Mumbai, Bangalore and Delhi. So this is what list allows us to do. Now again, whenever you are creating resources through Terraform, documentation is quite extensive regarding what data type it expects. For example, here you see there is an argument of volume underscore tags. It expects the data type of map. If you explore the second argument VPC security group IDs here it is expecting the data type of list and so on. Now for today's practical I have a file called as list hyphen data hyphen type.tf a very simple configuration file. What it does there is a variable that is specified and you have an output. So whatever value this variable has, that value will be presented to us as an output in CLI. So let's quickly explore that. So in my CLI let's go ahead and quickly do a Terraform plan. So here it is asking us for a value. So let's say I'll add a value called as hello hyphen world. And within here you see the variable underscore value is hello hyphen world. Now in fact just to avoid any confusion let me do a Terraform apply auto approve. It will ask us with a value, I'll say value is hello world. And after the apply is completed in the outputs here, it will simply display whatever value the variable of my list has. All right. So now let's do one thing. Let's take a step further and let's specify the value requirement associated with this variable. So I'll say type is equal to list. So now we have explicitly specified that this variable value must be of type list I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform apply with auto approve again. So this time let's specify hello immediately here you see we got an error. Now this error if you read it it is not very useful. It states no value for a required variable. This is not a very easy to understand error. So this is the reason why your understanding about data types are important. So as we know that list is expected. And the way in which we specify list is square brackets and you specify some value here. Let's say test. Let's say hello. This time you see it worked after apply completed in the variable value. We got test and we got. Hello. All right. So I hope with this at a very high level overview, you understood what list allows us to do. Now let us also understand some of the practical scenarios so that we understand the data type properly. So let's say that you are trying to create an EC2 instance. So let's do one thing. In fact let me just copy the code here. We'll make it very simple. All right. We'll also remove the previous code to keep things simple. Now within here the Army you can just specify any random army. I'll just say army 123. We are not creating the resources as of now. We are just understanding the concept. Now, as we are discussing that, there are certain argument that requires a data type of list. So if you explore the overall documentation, one of the arguments that we know is VPC security group ID. So here you see it states list of security group IDs to associate with. So let's in fact add that I'll say VPC security group IDs. And within here you can specify the security group IDs here. Now one of the question that generally comes is in fact let me also quickly show you this. So it can happen that there can be multiple set of security groups. In fact, let me quickly show you. So at this stage I only have one security group. Let me just create one more security group. All right. I'll just create one more security group randomly. Now at this stage we have two security group associated with a region. Now let's assume that whatever EC2 instance that we want to create, it should not have only one security group, but it should have two security group. Now generally, whenever you try to create it through the console, you can easily select multiple set of security groups. So you see you have the default and you have the test. So from the GUI you can select multiple set of security groups here. And similar to what we have discussed, whenever there is collection of values, list is one of the important data type that is used. And this is the reason why whenever you are using the VPC security group ID, they expect you to provide the details as part of the list where multiple values can be added. For example, one might say that you can do something similar to this. Let me show you. So in fact, let's go back. And in the security group you have security group ID associated with each security group. Let me copy the ID. So this is the ID. So initially you might say that you can also we can also define it in a way like this I'll add a comma. The second security group ID. Let's copy this. I'll add a comma. So this is also one of the ways in which you can specify two sets of security group IDs. All right. So when you try to do that it will not work. However let's also verify that. So I'll do a Terraform plan immediately. Here. You see we got an error. And this is the reason why it is always important to verify the data type that is supported for an argument. So whenever you have to specify multiple set of values here list is one of the important data type. So now you can add it as part of the list. All right. It will look something similar to this I'll save it I'll do a Terraform plan. And you see it is working. So in the VPC security group ID you see you have two security group that is added. All right. So I hope with this at a high level overview you understood the list data type. Now, one more important thing that I wanted to share is that it can also happen that the list data type only has a single value at a particular stage. That will also work. For example, let's assume that there is only a single value associated with a security group ID argument here. So this will also work in a list. So if you do a Terraform plan you see single value also works. So it is not that if you only have a single value you can remove the list and you can use a simple string data type. This will not really work. If you try this it will immediately give an error. I'll do a terraform plan. You see it is giving an error so even if you have a single value. But if a argument requires a list, then you must provide a list. All right. This is very important part that needs to be remembered. Now before we conclude this video, one more important area that you need to keep a note of is that in a data type, you can also specify the type of value that you can add. For example, in a list, as we know you can add multiple set of strings. So it is a collection of values. Now what type of value you can add in a list is also something that you can define. For example you have a variable called as Mylist. Type is list. And here you have a number. So this list will only accept collection of values that are number. Very important part to remember. Let's also try it out. Let's say I will add a variable of my hyphen list. And within here I'll say type is list. This is very easy to understand. Now in fact let me also remove this resource block. I'll save the change. Let's clear the screen. Now when you do a Terraform plan, it will ask you to enter the value. So I'll say hello. All right. Now if I press enter you did not really get an error. That is completely fine. Now let me also show you if you do not add a list, it will immediately give an error. All right, now as we are discussing, you can also specify what kind of value this list must have. In this case we have specified number, so only numbers will be allowed to be added as part of the list. I'll save the change. Let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan now. This time let's try. Hello. And again, as expected, we got an error. Let's do a Terraform plan yet again. This time let's add value. Say one, let's say two. And this time you see we did not really get an error here. So depending upon the exact use case, there is a lot of flexibility related to what type of value a specific data type can also have. However, at this stage we are keeping it simple. I hope you understood the basics of the list data type in Terraform and with this we'll conclude today's video.