Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the data type of map in Terraform. Now at a high level overview, the map data type represents a collection of key value pair elements. Now if you have explored the list data type. So list data type consists of collection of values. However map is quite similar but it contains the collection of key values. So let's understand this with a simple screenshot based code where you have a variable called as instance underscore tags. The type is map. Now if you see within here you have a default, and in the default you have a collection of key value pairs. So the key is name. Value is app servers. Key is environment values development keys. Team value is payments. So this is what is referred to as a collection of key value pair elements. So anytime in Terraform where you have to specify the collection of key value pairs, map is the right set of data type. Now one of the important use cases where Map is used from practical point of view is associated with tags. So in AWS tags are basically collection of key values. So here you see you have key you have value key value key value. So in such cases list cannot be used because list is basically a collection of values. So in such case you have to use the data type of map. Now let me also quickly show you this for better clarification. So I have a simple EC2 instance that is running associated with this EC2 instance. There is a specific feature of tags. Now in tags you can add multiple set of key values. So I'll say team is dev location let's say USA and so on I'll click on save. So now if you see tags it contains multiple set of key value pairs. So this is the reason why map data type is used specifically whenever you want to create a EC2 instance with tags. Now let me also quickly show you this. So for our AWS underscore instance resource. You will see that tags here they are defined in this specific format in the curly braces. Here you have a key and you have a value of hello world. If you look into the data type that is expected for tags, let's do one thing. Let's specify tags. Let's go a bit down. So for the tags argument here they have clearly stated map of tags to assign in a resource. So from here you can easily identify that if you want to add tags then you need to create a map. Now creation of map is pretty simple. In the curly braces you have to specify the collection of key values. Let's also explore this. Now. For today's practical we have a file called as map hyphen data hyphen type with a very simple code where you have a variable that is defined called as mymap and we have explicitly defined the type is equal to map and you have an output. What this output does, whatever value the variable has, it will output that in curly. All right. So let's go ahead and quickly try it out. Now from the CLI, whenever we go ahead and do a terraform apply, it is asking for a value. Now within here, if you try to add a value in terms of list, let's verify you see immediately we got an error. So let's clear the screen. This time let's do a Terraform apply auto approve. Again it is asking for a value. So value we know it needs to be in curly braces. And inside the curly braces you have a key value pair that needs to be added. So let's say team is equal to payments. This time you see our apply got successfully completed. And in the output we got team is equal to payments. So this is a key value pair. Along with that as we know that in map you can add collection of key value pairs. For example let's say you say team is equal to payments. you can add a comma. You can say location is equal to say us. This is also working perfectly as we can see in the output. We got location as us team as payments. Along with that, something very similar to the screenshot. If you want, you can also add a default value as part of the map. Let's also try that out. So you can say default and within the curly braces here let's say name is equal to Alice and team is equal to payments. All right. This is the default value here. Let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform apply with auto approve. And as expected we did not get any error. Apply is completed. And in the output this is the key value pair that we have added as a default value. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview you understood the basics of the map data type. And with this we'll conclude today's video.