Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the data type of object. Now before we discuss about the object data type, it is important for us to revise the basics of the map data type because both of these are quite similar. Now, in a basic setup, we already know that map is a collection of key value pairs, and one of the areas where it is extensively used is for tagging in AWS. Now, one of the important part for map that we have to keep a note of is that whenever we define a key value pair, the value must be of the same type, whereas the keys are string. Now, for example, if you look into the code, we have a variable of map and within here we have defined that map values must be number. Now within here, the second point that we have to keep a note of is that strict structuring is not explicitly required. Now let us take an example. So since a value is not defined here, whenever you do a terraform plan, it will ask you to feed in the value associated with the map here. Now if you see we have defined two values which are in the form of key value. Here one is name is equal to one two, three and location is equal to 456. So both of these are number. And this is the reason why in the output it has accepted it. Now what. The second pointer means that all values must be of the same type. This means that if you try to have different data type, if number is allowed, if you try to have a different data type like string, then that will not be accepted. So let's go ahead and quickly look into it. Now for today's video we have a very simple code where we have a variable called as my hyphen map. And the type is map and we have a output. What does the output state. It stays whatever value this variable has just print it as output. So a very simple code. Let's go ahead and try it out. Now within our KP Labs Terraform folder I'll quickly open up our terminal. Now within the terminal, as we have not really defined a value for our variable, I'll go ahead and I'll do a terraform plan. And it is asking us to add the value here. Now within the value let's say I have a name is equal to XL, say age. I'll just say 32. And we'll close the curly braces I'll press enter. And it has accepted this and things seems to be working. Now at this stage you can add multiple sets of key value pairs. There is no structure that is defined as part of the map. So if you see strict structure is not explicitly required. So what this means is that let's do a Terraform plan. You can copy this. Let's add it. You can add one more key value pair and it will work. There are no issues here. So if I say location is equal to India and things will work perfectly well. All right. So a simple variable of type map has no explicit structure defined. So you can add multiple set of key values as part of this. Now the second point is that if you define say number. All right. So by default it has taken string. So now you have explicitly defined number. So now what this would mean that all of the values that you will add as part of this map must be number. You cannot have multiple set of different values. For example one might be string, one might be number that is not accepted. So I will save this. Let's clear the screen. In fact let's just copy this as well. Just for our reference. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. This time. If I just copy paste this immediately we got an error. What is the error. It states a number is required. And where is the number required. Number is required as part of this value. All right. So let's run the Terraform plan again. We'll go ahead and add the same contents with different values. So let's say one two Age is fine. And in the location we'll say 45. Now the name is string, the value is number. If I press enter this has been accepted perfectly well. So when we discuss about this part it is associated with the value portion. It is not associated with the key portion here. All right. So I hope with this at a overview the map data type is better understood. Now the next part is the object data type. Now again object is very similar in a sense that it is a collection of key value pairs. So again in the object we have to define key and value. However, one of the great benefits here is that each value can be of different type. So you can say name is equal to string, user id is equal to number, and so on. So this flexibility is allowed and you can define it here. The next important part here is that whenever you define an object a proper structure is generally required. For example, you have to specify what is the type of value that is expected as part of the object. For example, you have a name followed by a value. Whatever value a user might give, user ID followed by whatever value user might give. So this type of structure is something that is required here. And when you have this code, if you look into a Terraform plan you have name is equal to Z. It has accepted this is a string. User ID is equal to 123. Again this has accepted and this is the number. So let's go ahead and also try this out. Now before we go ahead and add it as part of the code. One important part that we have to remember is that for variable of map we have not really defined any structure. So even if you use something like this, it will work perfectly well and there will be no errors. All right. So just to revise, if you do a Terraform plan, you see it is asking us for the value. Whatever value that you define it will be a string and it will be accepted. I'll do a Ctrl c. Now when we discuss about object, if you try to define it in a similar way as map. For example, in the variable of my map type is equal to map. This is working perfectly well. However, for a variable when a type is object, as we are discussing, a structure is required. So when you run this code it will work. But when you run this type of code, it will not really work. Let's go ahead and try it out now. I'll just copy this or you can just write it. It will not take much time. You can just say as my object and within your type is equal to object. All right, I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. Immediately you see we got an error stating invalid type specification. And it is saying that the object type it requires one argument specifying the attribute type and values as a map. Now we were already discussing that even object. It allows the collection of key value pairs. So what you have to do you have to define a structure. So let's go ahead and do that. So within here we can define a structure I'll say name. And what should be allowed as part of name I'll just say string. The second is say user ID and what should be allowed here number. All right. So as part of this object these two are the key value pairs that it expects. Here I'll save this. Now let's clear the screen. In fact let's do one thing. I'll just comment out this code because we don't want to define variable for map as well. I'll save this. And this portion. You can just change it to object. Let's do a Terraform plan. At this stage we got an error. What it states object constructor map keys must be attribute names. All right. So all you have to do is you have to remove the double quotes. And that should solve the issue. Let's save this. will clear the screen. We'll do a terraform plan once again. This time it is asking us for a value here. Now in the value let's say name as XL and user ID of say one, two, three, four. And I'll close the curly braces here. As expected, it has accepted this value. Now let's also try to provide a different value to see if it accepts or not. So we'll do a Terraform plan. Once again I'll copy this. Let's add it here. Now we already know that for user ID it is expecting a number. So this time instead of number, if I provide a string, let's say hello. If I press enter immediately we got an error stating that a number is required. All right. So whenever you define an object the attribute can have different set of values based on the requirements that you specify. And this is one of the great benefits that object provides. Now, before we conclude a few important pointers that you have to keep a note of specifically related to syntax. First, one states that the object is basically a collection of named attributes that each have their own type. This is something that we already saw, like how one part can be string, second part can be number, and so on. Second is the schema for object type is key is equal to type key is equal to type. So you have a curly braces here and you have a comma separated series of key is equal to type. This is something that we have already saw. The third important pointer is that the extra attributes that you add will be discarded during the overall type conversion. So this can be better understood with this example where if you see we have defined a variable of type object and it is expecting two key value. One is name string, second is user id is equal to number. Now as part of the value if you add additional key value pairs over here, although it will not give you an error, but in the output it will be trimmed out. All right. So it will be discarded completely here. Let's go ahead and also try this out. So for our code we have a simple two set of key value pairs that it is expecting. Now if I go ahead and I'll clear the screen I'll do a Terraform plan. Let's go ahead and add multiple set of key values. I'll say name as z again user id say one two, three and we'll add one more part, let's say email of instructors at the rate KP labs dot n just for an example. And we'll close the curly braces. Now this part is extra and the object is not really expecting it. So whenever you go ahead and press enter you see this part has been discarded in the outputs and it has not been considered. All right. So I hope with this you also understood the last scenario as part of today's video. So that's a high level overview about the object data type. And with this we'll conclude today's video.