Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about the functionality of nesting that you can add as part of the variable types. So let's go ahead and get started. Now again note that this is a very important video. Generally whenever in production environments you will see that you require a very highly structured configuration, specifically as part of variables. And in such cases, the learnings that we are going to achieve as part of today's video is going to be very important. So with this, let's get started. Now at this stage we have been using common data types in Terraform like list, maps, etc. as part of the variable. So for example, on the left hand side you have a variable with a type of map with a default value. On the right hand side, you have a variable with the type of list with a default value. So this is simple to understand and nothing complicated is present here. However, what we have been doing till now for a specific variable we have defined only one type. For example, a type would be map, the type would be list, and so on A single type is generally is what we have been using. However, you have to keep a note that the variable types also support nesting. So when we discuss about nesting, it means that you can use multiple set of data types as part of this, and it in turn allows you to build a highly structured configurations. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and look into certain examples which will allow us to understand this topic in great detail. Now the example number one is associated with list of lists. So if you look into this variable, the type here is not just the single list, but inside this list you have one more list. And this list is associated with string. So at an overview a list of lists is a list that contains lists as its element that was in fact difficult line to pronounce. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and try this out. Then we'll look into how exactly the structure can be achieved, specifically related to the default values that we define. So within our labs Terraform folder, let's go ahead and quickly open this up with Visual Studio Code. And within here let's go ahead and quickly create a new file. Let's just call it as nested variable types.tf. Now within here let's go ahead and define a simple variable. We'll say list of list. And within here within the type we have been using simple type like list. This is very simple to understand. However we'll use certain level of nesting. So inside list we want one more list. And this list should accept string. All right. So this is perfectly accepted. You did not really get an error as you can see. In fact if you open this up with terminal you can also do a Terraform validate. And you do not really see an error. Now the question that comes is how will you define the value associated with this. So this is important thing to remember. Let's go ahead and try it out. So in the default first thing since there are two lists over here, first we are going to specify the outer list. So this is the outer list. Then inside this outer list again you have list which accepts string. So here I'll add one more list. And within here let's just call it as Alice you can add multiple set of list. Second I'll call as Bob. Third I'll call as John. All right. So this is referred to as list of lists where you have your main list. Within the main list you have other set of lists that are available now just to ensure that everything is working. We'll just create an output of list of lists. And within here we'll just specify value. What will be the value? I'll say var dot the name of our variable. And I'll save this. Now let's go ahead and do a terraform. Apply with auto approve. And as expected we got Alice. We got Bob and we got John. Great. So I hope with this at the overview, you understood what list of lists mean. Now one more pointer that you have to keep a note is that each inner list can have a different length allowing for different structure. So it is not necessary that all of the inner list will have the same number of elements. You can mix and match based on your requirements. For example, for the inner list one year you can have more elements. Let's say James. So here you have two elements. You have one element and you have one element. I'll save this. When you do a terraform apply as we can see you have Alice James, you have Bob and you have John. All right. Now again, just for reference, I have added a screenshot on what type of value this specific variable will accept. Just for reference, whenever you are revising the example number two is related to list of maps at an overview. It is a list as we know, but each element is a map. So in the earlier portion we had a list. Inside that outer list we had multiple set of inner list. However, for this you will have multiple set of maps that you can add as part of a specific list. So let's also go ahead and try it out. So I'll specify variable list of maps within your the type would be list. Then inside this you can specify map. And inside this you can just specify string. All right. Now comes the interesting part which is to define a value. So let's go ahead and try it out. So within the default here. What is the first part? What is the outer part is something that you have to see. Outer part is a list. So you can go ahead and define the outer part first. Now inside the outer part is a map. So now you can go ahead and define the map. So what you can say you can say user equals to say Alice. In fact you can just make it more formatted so that it looks good. So let's do the appropriate formatting. All right. This looks much more better. And then let's say email as Alice at the rate KP labs dot n. This is the first map that we have defined. Let's also try one more map. Let's say user is equal to Bob. Email equals to Bob at the rate KP labs dot n. All right. So you have two maps that are defined in a given list over here. Let's save this again for list of maps. So let's do one thing. Let's just comment out the first part so that we don't really get too many output values. We'll keep it simple for the list of map. Also we'll specify output list of maps and the value would be var dot the name of our variable. And we'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply. And as expected we are getting an output here. The third one is map of maps. So within here you have a map that is defined. Again inside the map you have one more map. So at an overview map of map is a structure where values are themselves map. So again this is interesting. Let's go ahead and try it out. So let's bring the comment to the earlier examples. Let's go ahead and create a variable of map of maps. And within here as we know type is map. And inside this you have one more map. And we'll just specify string. So you have the outer map. You have the inner map. So let's go ahead and figure out how you can add a default value associated with it. Now again we know since the outer part is map first thing you can define the outer part. Now once you have defined the outer part now you have to define the inner part also. So what you can do. First let's go ahead and do the right formatting. All right. Now when we discuss about map of map you need to have a unique key. It becomes much more easier let's say dev. And for this we'll specify say instance underscore type equals to t2 micro then Name equals to dev server. All right. So this is a map. Now you can add one more. Let's just identify it with prod. Now within your instance underscore type equals to say M5 dot large and name equals to prod server. All right. So this is a classic example of map of map. This is the first this is the second. Let's go ahead and specify the output values. Map of maps value will be var dot variable name. We'll save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a terraform apply. And as expected we are getting the output. This is the first. This is the second. The example number four is related to map of lists. So you have the map. Inside the map you have list that you have specified. And from here we can identify that it is a map where the values themselves are lists. So let's also go ahead and try this out. So let's comment out the earlier code. We'll create a variable of map of lists. The type will be map. And inside map we'll specify list. And for this we have a string. Now when you discuss about the default here first thing as we know it's a map. So the outer part will look something similar to this. Now you have a list which accepts the string. Now for this specific type, what you might try to do is something like this. So you will say Alice comma. You will say Bob. All right. So when you try this approach you see it is giving you an error. So let's also format it. All right. So this is not really working. It is giving you a warning here itself. What it states missing attribute value expected and attribute value introduced by an equal sign here. So in fact let's go ahead and what we'll do. We'll specify the output say map of lists. And within here we'll specify value is equal to var dot the variable name. We'll save this. Let's do a terraform apply. And we got an error here. What is this stating. Missing attribute value expected an attribute value introduced by an equal sign. So what you can do here is to define the value associated with it. So for example I'll say name equals to this. Let's just call it as names equal to this. So now you see the error went away. Now again, we have just added a random name. Here you can have a much more meaningful information. Now if I do a terraform apply. You see, this time it is working. All right. So this is the format that you need to keep in mind specifically whenever you're dealing with map of lists. And the last part of today's video is going to be list of objects from the name itself. We can identify that you have a list. And inside this list you have object. Now since object is used we know object has a specific structure. So you have also defined the structure that this is the structure that I require. And also for certain areas like tags you have also specified that I need a map. So this tags will only accept the map value here. So again this is an interesting one. Let's go ahead and try it out. So let's use the variable again I'll say list of objects. The type this time will be list object and inside object. You need to now specify what is the type of structure that you require. Let's say I say I require name as string, I require age as number. And let's say I expect tags as map of string. All right. So some form of structure is what you will have to specify. Since we are dealing with object. Now comes the interesting part which is to define the default value associated with it. So let's also try it out within here. Since it's a list, let's first use the outer part. Once you have specified the outer part, now you can start with the object. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and add a proper formatting. So first let's say name equals to say Alice age equals to. Say, since age is a number, you can say 32. And tags this time. Tags requires math. So you will have to use a map here within your let's say env equals to say div. And we'll add one more tag. We'll say name equals to Alice. All right let's save this. Now let's also specify the output of list of objects. And the value will be var dot list of objects I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a terraform apply. And as expected it is working. We did not really get an error. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview you understood that inside a variable type. Also it is not always necessary to specify one data type. You can mix and match depending upon the requirements. Many times in a production environment, you need to have a very structured configuration for a variable and based on use case. To use case basis, you need to use multiple set of types that we were discussing as part of today's video. So this is the reason why we took some of the common data types as part of today's video in the example, so that the overall topic should not be confusing. As we saw, if you are able to try this out and implement it, it is a much more simpler topic. But first time when you go ahead and see a code something similar to this. It might be a little confusing, but I am sure after this video things look much more easier now. Again, it is not necessary that in production environment you will only come across this depending upon the structure that you require. You can mix and match multiple types and use it accordingly as part of the resources. So with this we will conclude today's video.