Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to learn on how we can fetch the values from the nested variable types. Now as we were looking into the earlier videos as well, you can have multiple sets of very structured configuration that you can add as part of the variable using nesting of multiple data types. However, you will have to use the value associated with variable in some other places like resources. So it is very important for us to understand that when you have a structured configuration, how you can fetch the value as part of a variable. Now, before we look into it, one of the areas that will help us is understanding the basics of the length function. Now at the overview length function determines the length of a given list map or a string. So if you look into the screenshot, you have a variable. This variable is very simple. The type is list and the default. You have multiple values and in the output you are using length followed by the var dot demo underscore list. So in the output, what will be the output that you will get? Take a guess. And the answer is four. This is very simple to understand. In fact let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and quickly try this out. Then we'll discuss about a few other important pointers. Now within the Visual Studio let's go ahead and quickly create a file. I'll just call it as fetch values.tf. Now I already have a sample code. You can also get it from our GitHub repository. I'll add it here a very simple code. You have a length and you are supplying the values associated with this variable within here. All right I'll save this within our labs Terraform folder I'll open the terminal. We'll quickly do a terraform apply with auto approve. And as expected you get the value as four because there are four elements in the list. Now that we understand the basics of length function, let's go ahead and look into how it can work when you have a nested variable type here. So you have a list of list that has been specified. So this is the first. This is the second and this is the third. Now when you use the length function associated with this variable type, what is the value that you will get over here. Take a guess. Will you get 12345678? Will you get the answer of eight or will you get the answer of three? And the final answer is three. So whenever you are making use of length function with a nested list, it will count the number of lists that are part within the outer list. So you have inner list one. Inner list two. Inner list three. So it will count the number of list that are part of the main list here. So let's also go ahead and try this out. So we'll just comment out the first code. Let's use the second code example. As we are discussing you have list within the list I'll save this I'll do a terraform apply and the answer is three. And from here what we have learned it is counting the number of lists that are part of the main list. All right. So let's say if I remove this I'll save this. We'll do a terraform apply and the answer will come as two. All right. Let's just quickly revert the change and I'll save this. We'll take one more example here. Again this is very similar. You have multiple lists that are specified within list. You have one list two lists and three list. And from here you should be able to identify because this is very similar to the earlier example. What is the output that you will get associated with the length function. And the answer is three because as we were discussing it counts the number of inner lists here. So you have one, you have two. You have three. Irrespective of the elements inside each inner list, it does not really matter. The only thing that matters is how many lists are present within the outer list that you can see over here. Now that we understand the basics of the length function and how exactly it counts the number of elements, the next important part is the referencing to a specific index. For example, when you have a code something similar to this, it is important to understand on how the indexing works. So just for an example. In fact, let's bring out the first code over here. So when you have a simple list over here. So when you discuss about each element each element has an index. So this is zero. This is one this is two and this is three. Now when you use the output let's specify value as var dot demo underscore list followed by the index. Now if you specify zero What will happen? This is the element that will be provided to you as an output if you specify two. What is the output that you will get? This is the zero. This is the one. This is the two and this is the three. So output you will get as mango. So I'll save this. We'll do a terraform apply. And as expected we got the output of mango. Now this part is simple to understand. But when you have nesting that comes as part of the data type it can be a little confusing. So let's also go ahead and look into how it works, specifically on how you can also reference to a specific value associated with the nested type. So the first important pointer that you have to keep a note is that each inner list is associated with a specific index. Now, as we were discussing in the length function, the first inner list, the second inner list, and the third inner list are counted. The elements inside each inner list are not counted in a similar terms when you discuss about the index. Also, the index are at an inner list level. To begin with. So for example if you look into the index it would look something similar to this. Index of zero will reference to this. All right a1 a2 a3 index of one b1 b2 b3 index of two. C1 c2 c3. So all the elements inside a specific inner list will be associated with the first index that you specify. So in fact let's also go ahead and try it out. I'll remove this and we'll take one more example here. Let's use this as an example I'll add here and we'll just replace this over here in the output. All right. Now also let's replace this. Great. Now as we were discussing the similar index concept will apply here where this is the index of zero. This is index of one. This is index of two. So within here if you specify zero, what will be the output? Output will be the elements of the first inner list here. Let's try it out. I'll do a terraform apply and in the output a1 a2 a3. Alright. Very similar to this. Now one more interesting thing that I just wanted to show is that you can also have an empty list. All right. This is also perfectly allowed. Now when you say 0123. So when you do a two let's save. This will clear the screen. I'll do a terraform apply. And this time you see you did not really get an output because the inner list did not have any content. So many a times the confusion happens is that if you have an empty inner list, it will not be considered as part of the index. However, that is not true. Even if it is empty, it will be having a specific index number. So you have to keep this in mind. Now the next important part is to reference to a specific value within each inner list. This is quite important. So to access element in a nested list. So you have this nested list. You must use two indices, one for each level of the list. All right. So you have the first level. And then you have the level of each element. So the first index specifies which of the inner list to access. This is something that we just saw. So if you specify zero it will reference to all the elements within the first inner list. This is the first part. So this is the first index. And then once you reference to the first list here, then you can add subsequent indices to specify the element within that inner list. For example, if you look into the output you have zero. So this will reference to the first list here a1, a2, a3. This is something that we already know. Now after this you can also specify one more index which is one. So within the first list over here you have zero, one and two. So this is the one year. So when you do an output it would look something similar to this. You'll get a two as the answer. Let's try this out. So we'll use the same example over here. So first as we are discussing you have to specify the first index. So the first index lets us specify as one just for an example. So this is zero. This is one. So at this stage it will fetch the value associated with this. Now you want only a specific value which is b two. So now you can specify that as one again. So inside this you have zero one and two. So you have specified that I need this element. And this is the overall output. Let's save. This will clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply. And as expected in the output we got B two. Now that we understand the basics let's also go ahead and look into how you can reference to a specific value for other nested variable types. For example, here you have a list of map. Within the list you have multiple set of maps. So within here. Also the overall approach is very simple. If you just specify the index of zero what will happen? The first map will be provided to you as an output. Let's also try this out. We'll fetch the newer code. Let's add it here. You can get it from git. Now again this is very simple. Since it is a list it becomes quite simple. So here you can just specify zero. So inside this list this is the zero index. Here. Let's save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a terraform apply. And you see we got John. So we had two. You had John and you had Jane. We got this as an output. Now this part is fine and easy to understand. But what happens if you want to get a specific value. For example, for John you do not really want all of the values to be provided. You only want the value associated with the email to be provided. And in such case, also you can use a subsequent indices very similar to the earlier example that we had taken. For example, if you just require email then you can specify email over here and in the output you will just get an email. Let's also try this out. So within your first you have to reference to the exact index. At this stage it is this one. Then you can reference to what is the exact element value that you require. Do you require a name, do you require a role. And so on. I say I require an email. I'll save this. When you do a terraform apply. You see we got John at the rate example.com as an output. So now that we understand associated with list of list, list of map and so on, let's look into some other data type in this case map of map. Now whenever you have map of map the approach is little different. You cannot reference directly with the index. Instead you can reference with dev and prod. So within dev you have a map. Then you have a prod. You have a map. So if you want to fetch the value associated with dev, you can just specify dev over here based on this specific structure. Again depending upon the structure, the way in which you can reference will also change. So let's try this out. First we will quickly comment this out. Let's use a newer example. Let's add it over here. Now since this is a map of map, first thing that I wanted to show you, let's try to reference it with the index of zero. Let's save. This will clear the screen. We'll do a terraform apply. And immediately we got an error stating the given key does not identify an element in this collection value. So instead of that you can reference with dev or prod. So now if you just specify say def we'll do a terraform apply. Now you just got values associated with dev. Now inside dev. Also if you require a specific value we know how you can approach that. You can specify let's say you require instance type. So I just specify instance type. I'll save this. Let's do a Terraform apply. And we just got an instance type this time. And the last example for today's video is associated with list of objects. So you have a list. You have an object. And this object has a specific structure. Now again since you have a list that is being used you can reference to it using the index in this case zero. So what is the zero here? Zero is this first part. If you see you have the name of web server that is being provided to you as an output. So when you have a list it becomes much more simpler. Let's also try this out. So we'll just bring down the comment And then we'll add the list of objects. So for this let's also quickly add the output I'll say instances. Again I'll add this in the final code so it becomes simpler for everyone to reference to. So within here, since this is a list, you can just reference to it simply with the index. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply and we are getting the web server related output. Now if you want to get a specific value associated with a map, that is also possible. So now what you can try within zero I need the value associated with say name. So here I'll specify name I'll save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply. And this time we got a name. Now one more thing. If you see the tags is again a map of string. So let's say that you require tags I'll say tags. You do a terraform apply. We are getting two tags. Env. Production. Roll. Web. Now let's say you only require this specific tag. You want to see what is the environment or what is the roll. So further you can specify e n v. I'll save this. We'll do a terraform apply. And this time we got env of production. Great. So I hope with this you understood the basics on how you can fetch the values associated with a variable. Again you can have a simple variable type. You can have a nested kind of a structure. It does not really matter. The approach is quite simple. Generally when you have a very highly structured variable, then the challenge becomes on how you can fetch the value associated with the variable and reference it to a resource like EC2 instance and so on. And this is the reason why the learnings that we discuss in today's video proves to be very important. So with this we'll conclude today's video.