Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the challenges associated with the count meta argument. Now whenever you are making use of count, for example, if you look into this screenshot, we are basically referencing to the variable of IAM names and we are using the count dot index. And in the IAM names we have three values that are part of this list. You have user zero one, user zero two and user zero three. So when we discuss about the resources are identified by the index value in the list, we know that the index value starts with zero. For example, if you look into the overall resource address for the user zero one, which is the first element over here, it will be identified by the number of zero the user zero two, which is the second element will be identified with the one. And the third element will be identified with two. Primarily because we know that this starts with zero. So let's do one thing in fact, before we proceed further, let's revise this concept practically again so that there is no confusion because in the upcoming slide, this specific knowledge is very important. So currently similar to the screenshot that we were discussing, I have a variable of I am underscore names. And I also have a resource which uses the elements that are part of this variable list. And it creates certain IAM users. So let's quickly do a Terraform init. All right. So things are initialized. Let's quickly do a Terraform plan. Great. So at this stage there are three users that will be created. Now if you will see our first user which is user hyphen zero one, it is referenced to the zero position over here. The second user zero two is reference with the first position and the user three is referenced with the second position. Let's go ahead and quickly do a Terraform apply. And I'll also add a auto approve so that we don't have to add a. Yes. Great. So our three IAM users are created. If you look into the Terraform.tf state file at this stage here, you'll realize that under the AWS IAM underscore user type in the index key of zero you have user hyphen zero one. Similarly, in the index key of one, you have user hyphen zero two. So this is something that we have been discussing. All right. So I hope with this you understood the first pointer which states that the resources are identified by the index value from the list. And the index value starts from zero. Now one of the challenge that you will see in this kind of a scenario is that if the order of the elements in the index is changed, this can impact all of the other resources. For example, what we have done here, we have added one more user called as user hyphen zero, and we have added it as one of the first element in the list. So essentially what will happen is since in the earlier scenario, our user zero one was associated with the index of zero user zero two with the index of one and the user three of index of two. When you add a new user at the start of the list, all of these resource addresses are now modified. So these resource address needs to be disconnected. So the resources will either need to be updated or they will have to be terminated. And they'll have to be recreated again. So let's do one thing. Let's try it out. So in our file College challenge hyphen count, what I'll do I'll be adding one more element in the list now. In fact before we do that first let's go ahead and add it. At the last I'll say user hyphen zero four. All right. And the count I'll add it to four. So I'll quickly do a Terraform plan. And thing seems to be working. You see the address here is three. I will quickly do a terraform apply auto approve. Great. So things are working as expected. Now when we go ahead and add a element at the start of the list. So this time let's say user hyphen zero. Let's change the count to five. So this would mean that this would be the zero position in the index. This will be the first, second, third and fourth. So essentially all of these addresses will now be changed because of addition as the first element over here. And this will create a mess up. So let's go ahead and try it out. So let's clear the screen I'll do a Terraform plan once more. And this time you will see you have one to add. This is as expected but there is four to change. So if you will see over here for the index key of zero instead of zero one user this time it is using the zero user and similarly it is also changing the index key associated with all other users. Now, one important thing to note that depending upon the resources that you are using, some resources will terminate. Some resource will show update in place, but generally this update in place is also not the right output over here because you cannot really rename the IAM users directly. For example, if you go ahead and try and do the Terraform apply auto approve, this should actually mess up things. Let's look into it. And immediately you see you got multiple failed message over here. So this is one of the reasons why generally whenever you are performing some actions on Terraform it is recommended to not directly do it in production environment. Even though from the message this looks like a very simple operation. But this is something that can also fail. Now, one important thing that needs to be noted specifically for the count parameter is that this is generally recommended for the resources that are almost identical. For example, you are creating a EC2 instance. Now all of the parameters in the EC2 instance are identical. So there are. For EC2 instance you have Ami id, you have instance type. So for all of these four instances, these two will be common. So this is where the count parameter can be useful. Now in case if you need a distinctive values for example you need a total of four EC2 instances. But these four EC2 instance needs to have a different type one will be T2 micro, second will be T3 micro, and so on. So when you have such use case count parameter is not ideal. And in such use case you need to make use of for each meta argument. Now we will be discussing in detail associated with the for each in the upcoming video. However, before we do that, it was important for us to understand some of the disadvantages of count parameter and also the use cases where it should be used. So with this, we'll conclude today's video.