Hi everyone and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the set data type. Now before we go ahead and understand about the set data type and the advantages that it offers, it is important for us to understand the basics of list data type along with the advantages and disadvantages. Now let's go ahead and quickly revise the basics of the list data type. At a high level overview. As we already know, when we discuss about the list data type, you can go ahead and store multiple set of items in a single variable which has a data type of list, something similar to what you see in this specific screenshot here. Now, one of the important part here is that in this specific values as part of the list, the items can be duplicate. For example, you have Hello world. Hello. So you have three items here among which the hello item here is duplicate. So this is specifically allowed in the list data type. Along with that the items that you add as part of the list these items are indexed. So that basically means if you see here we have three items. The first one has an index of zero. The second one has an index of one. Third one has an index of two. All right. So once you understand both of these pointers that we just discussed, it will be easier for us to understand the set data type. Now one of the benefits of set data type is that it can only store unique elements. For example, set data type is very similar to that of list. For example, in this variable here this variable has a data type of set. Again you can store multiple items very similar to that of list. So here we have stored hello world. Hello. Very similar to the example number one. And if you look into the output here you only have one. Hello. The last hello is no longer present. Now if you look into the slide number one, when we had a data type of list, when you had Hello world, hello. In the output, you had hello world. Hello. However, in the set data type, since the items needs to be unique. Even if you have a duplicate item, it will only accept the unique item as part of it. All right, so any duplicates that you add as part of the set data type are automatically removed. One more point that we have to keep a note of is that whenever you define a specific data type of set, something similar to the example. Here, we always also have to specify the type of values that this specific set expects. So is it a string, is it a number. And so on. So you will have to specify it within the brackets here. All right. So before we proceed further let's go ahead and quickly try this out so that our understanding is much more better before we proceed with other pointers. So back to our CP Labs Terraform folder. Let's go ahead and quickly open up the Visual Studio. And within here I'll just quickly create a file called as set.tf. Now let's go ahead and quickly Specify a variable again, we'll go ahead and test it out with both list and set. So the name of variable is my list. And within here I'll specify type is equal to list. And that's about it. Similarly we'll specify a variable of my hyphen set. And within here I'll specify type of set. Now before we go ahead and add this let me just comment out this specific code. All right. Let's go ahead and experiment with this post which will experiment with set I'll save this now from our folder I'll open up the terminal. Now when we do a terraform plan. Since the variable does not have a value what it will do, it will ask us for the value. So for value let's go ahead and add a value something similar to the screenshot. I'll say hello world. Hello. All right. As I press enter we got an error because this was not closed. So let's do one thing. Let's clear the screen again. Let's run Terraform plan. We'll just add a value again. Hello, world. Hello. All right. It should work now. As expected, it says no changes to the infrastructure. Now, just for simplicity, I'll also add the output block with a value of var dot my hyphen list here. And before we go with the terminal, we also have to specify the name. I'll just call it as my list. I'll save this now from our CLI. When I do a terraform, apply with auto approve so that our state gets generated. Let's go ahead and add the same value as expected in the output. We got all of these value back now. In fact, just for simplicity what you can do just for us to save time you can add a default values here. Let's copy this. Let's add it over here and in the output. Instead of not defining anything, I'll just say zero, which is the index, as we know that for list it starts with index of zero. So this is zero. This is one. This is two I'll save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a terraform apply. And now what you see it says my list is equal to. Hello. Great. So I hope this you understood this part. Now let's start with set. So let's go ahead and we'll just comment out the earlier portion. We'll remove the comment for the next portion. Now whenever you just define a set I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Whenever you do a Terraform plan, immediately we got an error which states that the set type requires one argument specifying the element type. So let's say I add a element type of string. I'll save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll run the Terraform plan once again. And this time it has accepted and now we have to add a value. Now the value can be added very similar to the one that we had defined earlier, which is list. So in this square brackets you can add the value. I'll just copy this and I'll add it over here and I'll press enter. Now it says change to outputs. It is removing this primarily because we have commented out this code. So just for simplicity let's add one more output block over here and we'll replace it with my set. And I'll save this. Let's also change it to my set I'll save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll run the Terraform plan once again in the value I'll add the value again. And this time you see in the output it is only showing hello world. Which is this the next hello. Which again as we know is a duplicate is not added as part of it. Now, one of the good thing about set is that even if there are duplicates, it will not give you an error, although it will not accept it, it will also not give you an error. Silently, it will remove the duplicates from the final output. Here, similar to what you see as part of this output. So just for simplicity, even if you just do a Terraform apply auto approve. Let's add the value again in the final output. We only see Hello world! And similar to this, even if you look into the Terraform state, only Hello World will be stored as part of the value. The duplicate hello will be removed. Great. So I hope with this you understood the basics of set. The next important part that we need to remember is that the set is unordered. Very important. And again this is a distinction when we discuss about list. So a set does not store the order of elements. So when we discuss about list in the first screenshot you have a list. In the second screenshot you have a set. So when you discuss about list we know the first element has a index of zero. Second with the index of one third with the index of two. When we discuss about set, you do not really have a index something similar to that of list. So within set Terraform will only track the presence of element not their order. So if you have John at the start and at a later stage, you move John at the end, it does not really matter in set. It matters in list, but it will not matter in set. Only thing that matters is that the item with the name of John should be present. The order of this item does not really matter. So lets also go ahead and try this out. So this time for the variable of my set, I will just add the values also with a default. All right. Now just for simplicity what I'll do, I'll add a different unique name. This time I'll say Alice, I'll say Bob and I'll say John, I'll save this. And you can go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve. Now, once you have done that, if you look into the Terraform state, you have Alice, you have Bob, and you have John. Now, in the second case, if we remove the John from here, we add it at the start. Let's add a comma. Let's remove the one at the end. So when you change this from set perspective, it does not really matter as long as the item are there with the same name. The ordering here does not really matter if you just do a terraform, apply with auto approve or in fact, if you just do a terraform plan, it should show you no changes in the infrastructure even if the item order is changed, this is offset. Now let's also look into this from the list perspective where. Let's copy the same items here. Let's add it as part of the list. We'll remove the comment. All right. Let's also remove this index. And I'll save this I'll clear the screen now when we do a terraform apply with auto approve, it has stored the changes. Now let's say we change the item. So currently Bob is at two. All right. Now let's bring Bob at zero. Let's remove the unnecessary comma. Now in the set when the item order were changed, it did not really matter. When we did a Terraform apply it said no changes in the infrastructure. However, when we discuss about list now when we do a Terraform plan, you see it is trying to make a change. So this Bob which was earlier at index two, now it is at index of zero. So changes are happening. So when you have a infrastructure that is dependent on the list and the order of the items in the list changes, then the infrastructure will also be affected accordingly. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview you understood the basics of set data type and with this we will conclude today's video.