Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about an important topic which is the foreach meta argument. Now at this stage, we already know that by default whenever you configure a resource block, it is generally associated with one real infrastructure object. Now many times what happens in organization is you want to manage multiple set of similar objects as part of your infrastructure. Now the problem with that is if you want to have multiple sets of similar object, then you will have to add multiple set of resource blocks that you do not really want because it will unnecessarily make your configuration lengthy. Now, in order to achieve a better solution, there are two ways. One is using count. Second one is using foreach. Now, count is generally used when you have multiple set of same objects without a different set of configuration. However, if you have similar resource block, but you have slightly different configuration that you might want. In such case, for each is the way to go. Now, for example, let's say that you want to create five IAM users, but with a small change which is the name of each user should be different now by default, what you will do, you will add five such resource blocks with different username. Now this perfectly works, but is it the right solution? For example, let's say that you have 50 IAM users. Are you going to go ahead and add 50 such resource blocks here? You can. But again that is not the ideal solution. There are multiple approaches that HashiCorp has given that you can make use to keep your life simple. Now count in this case will not work. Why? Because you have a different configuration here. The name attribute is different for each resource block. So in the scenarios where you have the same resource type with small configuration changes, for each is the right solution that we can make use of. So at a high level overview if you are making use of the foreach meta argument, and the value associated with this meta argument is a map or a set of string, then Terraform will create one instance of each member of that map or the set that you have specified. Again, let's understand this with a simple example where you specify a variable with the type of set, so you have multiple sets of strings here. In this case you have just two, which is Alice and Bob. So now when you are making use of foreach, you do not really have to create multiple resource block what it will do for each member of that map or set. So here you have one member. You have two member. Terraform will create one instance of each. So even if you have one resource block mentioned it will go ahead. And behind the scenes it will create multiple such resource blocks, something similar to what you see. For example, you have two IAM user resource blocks that are being created, one with the name of Alice, second with the name of Bob. So this is achievable using foreach. Now if you look into the syntax you have for each, and you specified the variable from which it has to fetch the value. So here you have two values. So what it will do for each of the value that is been specified here. It will create each block of the resource type in this case AWS IAM user. So let's go ahead and try this out post which will be discussing about few other pointers here. So for our lives Terraform folder let's go ahead and quickly open this up with our Visual Studio Code. I'll just create a file called as for each dot t f. Now first we'll go ahead and will create a variable. Let's just call it it as user underscore names. The type here we'll just call it a set of strings. And you can also have a default value. Let's just call it as Alice, Bob and John. All right. And now we'll go ahead and specify the resource of AWS IAM user. Let's just call it as this. And within here ideally we already know that we have to specify the user name something like Alice. And this will go ahead and create a new user called as Alice. But we do not really want this. Since we have multiple user name we can also add multiple set of blocks. But again we know that this is not the best approach. So what we want, we want our code to loop through these values. And for each item as part of the loop behind the scenes, it should create an individual resource block for each item. So as we know for each can be used. So what you need to do, you have to specify for each. And then you have to specify the name of the variable based on which this foreach can fetch the value. So I will say var dot user underscore names. All right. This is one very important part. Now next part we have to specify the names. So this name again this name is part of this IAM user resource type. And within a we say each dot value. So now what this is doing. First this for each meta argument will read the values associated with the variable of user underscore name. Now once it reads the value, what we are doing for each value that the foreach meta argument finds as part of this specific variable, it should go ahead and create the resource block individually for each one of them behind the scenes. So now generally what it will do. First it will create a resource block for the Alice user. Something like this. So first it has read the Alice user. Now it has read the Bob user. So behind the scenes, what will happen again for the Bob user a individual resource type. And third it will read the value of John. So behind the scenes you will see that the for each will go ahead and create a resource type of AWS IAM user with the different value of John. All right. So let's remove this and let's save this within our KMS terraform folder. I'll quickly go ahead and I'll do a terraform init. At this stage we got an error stating invalid type specification. And what it states the keyword strings is not a valid type specification. So all we have to do is just we have to change it to string. Let's clear the screen. Let's go ahead and do a terraform init once this is done. Now if you do a terraform plan let's observe the output. So this time you see you have the aws iam user Alice AWS IAM user Bob. You can see this is Bob, this is Alice and this is John. And tomorrow if you have one more user let's just call it as James I'll save this. All you have to do if you are using for each you have to do the Terraform plan. And this time you have four to add, the fourth being John. So just for simplicity, in order to ensure that the code is working, you can just do a Terraform, apply with auto approve and verify if the users are getting created or not, because this is the right way to verify. And as we saw, all the four users are created now before we proceed further, one point that we have to keep a note of is that whenever you are making use of forEach, there is an additional each object that is made available. So this each object here has two attributes. One is key, second is value. Now when we were discussing about this in practical we had made use of each dot value. However, you can also make use of each dot key. Now the key part is specifically useful whenever you have a map. So let's also go ahead and understand on how we can make use of foreach when map is the data type. So I have added one more example where foreach is used with map. Now generally in map what happens is that you have a key value pair where you have a key of dev value of am I123 key of prod value of am I456. So when you have a map, then for each can read both the key and it can read both the value associated with the keys. So here if you see we have specified each dot value. So when you specify associated with army what it will do, it will read the value Army 123 Army 456. However, you can also make use of each dot key where it will read only the key portion of the map. All right. So specifically when we discuss about map, this key portion proves to be very useful. Let's also go ahead and try this out. So just for simplicity let's just comment out the code that we had written. This time we'll write one more code. Let's just call it as my map and we'll just create a map. I'll specify key is equal to value. And one more key one is equal to value one. All right. And just for simplicity we are going to make use of the resource of AWS underscore instance. I'll just copy this again I have added the base code as part of GitHub so that you can also directly reference from there. Let me just add it over here. Now we already know the basic syntax here, which is we can specify for each. And we have to also specify the place from which it can fetch the value. In this case it is my hyphen map. This is first part. now for the Army. You can specify each dot key or each dot value depending upon what you want to read. So let's say I say each dot value and in the tags also here option to specify each dot key or each dot value. Let's specify each dot key. I'll save this. Now if you do a Terraform plan now in the output you see two to add. Now what are the two things that it is trying to add here. Let's see if I go a bit down. First it is trying to add in the tags. The name is key. This is first part. And in the army it is value. And in the second part army is value one and the tag is key one. All right. So I hope with this you understood the each dot key and each dot value. Now one more thing that I wanted to show you is that when you have something like set. Now within here you don't really have a key value pair. So in such cases what you can do. In fact, let's just comment out the last part of the code. Let's bring back the first part. Now within here you can also specify something like each dot key. Now since there are no key value pairs, the key and value both refer to the same item here. All right I'll save this. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. And it says no changes in the infrastructure. So even if you specify a key even if you specify a value, both will do the same thing. But generally it is recommended to use value because this is more accurate and easy to understand only in specific cases where you know that there are multiple set of key value pairs, then you can name each dot key and each dot value accordingly. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the basics of the foreach meta argument. And with this we'll conclude today's video.