Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about conditional expressions. Now at a very high level overview the conditional expressions in Terraform. It allows you to choose between two values based on the condition. So this can be better explained with this specific diagram where you have a conditional expression here. Now this conditional expression will have few conditions. So if you look into the table the condition looks something like this. Where if the environment is development then the resultant output is launch small server. If environment is production the resultant output is launch large server. All right. So this is the conditional expression. Now the question that comes is how does it know whether the environment is development and production. And it can take the value from different places like variable. So if you have a variable where environment is production, then conditional expression will go ahead and it will launch the appropriate server. For example, if it is development, it will go ahead and launch a smaller server. If it is in production, it will go ahead and launch the larger server. Now note that conditional expression is not directly used to launch this conditional expression. Logic is added to the AWS instance resource type based on which the servers will be launched. We will be discussing about this in just a moment. However, first let's go ahead and understand the syntax of the conditional expression. So the overall syntax looks something similar to this, where you have a specific condition and you have a true value and you have a false value. So what will happen is if this specific condition, whatever condition that you have specified, if this condition is true, then whatever in the true value you have specified will come into effect. If the condition is false, then whatever you have specified in the false value will be the resultant output. Now again, note that this might be a little confusing, but when we do, the practical things will make much more better sense here. Now, similar to the use case that we were discussing, where smaller and larger EC2 instance needs to be created based on the environment. So let's assume that if environment is development, T2 micro instance type should be used which has one GB Ram server. And if environment is not development, then M5 large instance type should be used, which has much more better Ram and CPU capacity. Now based on that, as we were discussing that the conditional expression can go ahead and understand what is the environment that is used through variables. So the overall code would look something similar to this, where you have a variable of environment which has a value. In this case it is development. Then the conditional expression here is added at the instance type attribute. So what is the conditional expression here. VAR dot environment. So this is the condition part. So var dot environment is equal to development. So this entire is the condition. If variable of environment is development, then what is going to be the true value? True value is going to be this. If var dot environment is not equal to development, then what is going to be the output? The output is going to be M5 dot large. So this entire part over here is the conditional expression here. So let's go ahead and quickly try this out practically. Now for today's practical I have a file called as conditional hyphen expression.tf. Again you will get the base code in our GitHub repository. Now a very simple file. What it is doing. It has a variable of environment that is defined with a default values of development. And you also have the EC2 instance resource type. Now at this stage when you do a Terraform plan, what will happen every time T2 micro instance will be launched irrespective of variable. So this variable is not directly associated with this block. So all the time T2 micro instance will be launched. So this is something that you might not always want in the production environment. You want certain level of customization. So that is what the conditional expressions allows us to do. So now associated with the instance type you can create a conditional expression where var dot environment. Here if variable of environment is equal to say development. All right then in such case if you look into the syntax this is the condition that we have done. Then you have the true value. Then you have the false value. So the condition now based on the condition, if this condition is matching what should happen then the value associated with this instance type should be t two dot micro. If this condition fails then the value should be m five dot large. All right. So let's go ahead and save this. Now from the CLI you can go ahead and do a terraform plan. You have one to add if you look into the output. Here the instance type has a value of T2 micro. Now let's change this to say production or any other value apart from this development. All right. In such case let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan once again. This time you see the instance type value is M5 dot large. Now within here you can have a wide variety of customization. For example in the condition we have var dot environment is equal to production. You can also say something like not equal to development. So now what will happen. Go ahead and spend a minute to understand what it is doing. So this means not equal to in case if you're not aware but VAR environment not equal to development. Now what will happen. So in such case since the var dot environment is not equal to development. This condition holds to be true because the environment is production. So now T two micro instance will be launched. Let's go ahead and try it out. So I'll clear the screen I'll say Terraform plan. So now you see T two micro instance is launched. And now if you change the environment to say development let's try it out. Now you see M5 dot large instance is launched. Now there is also one more customization that you can do. So let's remove this not equal to I'll just say equal to. So if var dot environment equals to nil value so there is no value here, then t two micro will be launched. If you have some value M5 will be launched. So let's try it out I'll say Terraform plan. You see M5 large. So this is basically like the empty value. Now let's say in the default you add no value here. Let's do a Terraform plan. You see T two micro has been launched. All right. So I hope with this multiple set of examples, you now have understood the basics on what conditional expressions are allowing us to do. Now before we conclude just for additional information, we should know that the conditional expression can be much more better tuned based on the use case. For example, you can tune your conditional expression to use multiple variables. So in this specific use case you will see that you have two variables environment variable and region variable. And in the conditional expression it looks something like this. So this entire part is the condition. Then you have the true value. You have the false value. So what is the condition. VAR dot environment is equal to production. And var dot region is equal to us east one. So only if both of these conditions are true, then the true value will be applied, otherwise the false value will be applied. Let's also try this out. So let's copy this variable of environment block and I'll add one more variable of region. And in here I'll say us East one just for an example. And we'll make our condition much more better where var dot environment is equal to say production and var dot region equals to us east one. So here we are assuming that you have a production region which is US east one. This is the main region of production environment. All right. So in fact let's also set this back to production. So only if this condition succeeds then the true value this time should be M5 dot large. And the false value should be t two dot micro. All right. I hope you understood what this is trying to do. Now, from the CLI, if you do a Terraform plan, since both the aspects of condition are met, the true value will be applied. Now if any aspect of the condition are not met. For example, in the variable of region, you change it to us east one and we'll change it from that to AP South one. All right. So this portion of condition is true. But this portion of the condition is false. So now what will happen if you do a Terraform plan then T two micro instance type will be used. All right. Only if both the aspects of condition are true then only true value will be applied. If any one aspect of the condition is false, then the false value will be applied. Great. So that's a very high level overview about the conditional expressions and also some level of customization that it supports. And with this we'll conclude today's video.