Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss the basics of four expressions. Now again this is an important topic and in many organizations you will see code that makes use of four expression. So it is important for us to understand the basics. So in today's video we are going to look into the four expression at a high level overview so that we understand it from the basic perspective. Now at a very high level overview four expressions are used to transform certain values. So let's understand this with a use case where you want to transform the values that are part of a list to the upper cases. Now again, let us understand this from a screenshot perspective where you have a variable of user underscore names. This is a list and there are three values here Alice, Bob, and John. So what you want to do? You want to transform these values to the upper case. So you see you have uppercase Alice. You have uppercase Bob you have uppercase John. So here there is some transformation that is happening from input to output. So this is where four expressions are used. Now again there are a lot of use cases where four expressions are beneficial. We'll be discussing this as and when required. To begin with we'll keep it simple. Now to transform this specific input value to the output value. As we know four expressions are useful. Let's go ahead and look into what is the four expression that is used to achieve this. So the four expression here looks something similar to this in the screenshot. So again you have a simple output of text. This is again something that we already know. Now you have a four expression here. What does it states for data in var dot user underscore name. So if you just read the four expression in simple English, you will be able to understand what it is trying to do. And this is the benefit of it. So for data in var dot user underscore name. So what is the data in Wyandotte user underscore name. You have Alice. You have Bob. You have John. So this part we understood. Now on the right hand side you have the actual Transformation. So what exactly you want to transform. So that is defined on the right hand side with states upper data. So upper is a terraform function which converts the lower case to upper case. And whatever value that it has fetched it is simply transforming to the upper case. And that is what the value of output would be. And this is what you see in the screenshot. So looking into the basics on how it works, again it is very simple. So what for expression will do. It will iterate over each element that is part of this list, considering that this variable is a list. So when we say for data in var dot user underscore name, it will connect to this variable. First it will iterate over each element. First it will go to Alice, it will go to Bob, then it will go to John and so on. And after the iteration, whatever value that it gets. So first it will get the value of Alice. So the Alice value will be converted to uppercase here. Then it will iterate to Bob, then it will iterate to John, and so on. And after it has completed its overall iteration over each element, you get the output here. All right. So that's a high level overview. Let's go ahead and try it out practically so that it gives us better understanding on how things work. So for today's video I am in my KP labs Terraform folder. Again the folder is empty as of now. Let's go ahead and quickly open up the Visual Studio Code. And within here I'll quickly create a new file called as 4.tf. Now, as we know, four expression requires certain value where the transformation can take place. So first we have to create a value. So I'll just use a simple variable of user underscore names. Again it is not necessary that values needs to be fetched from variable. You can also have locals from which four expression can fetch the value here. Now the type that will be specifying here is list and we'll have a default of, say, Alice, Bob and John. All right. So this is the basic variable from which we'll fetch the value. Then we can make use of output. Now again output is one of the places where you can make use of for expression. There are other places like you can also add it as part of the resource block. However we are keeping it simple in the output. We'll just call it as for and in the value associated with the output. One thing that you can do. So let's say the for expression feature is not available in Terraform. So now what you can do you can say var dot user underscore names zero. So now what will happen. The first element will be printed as part of the output. Let's save this. Let's go ahead and open it up with the terminal. Let's do a Terraform plan. And as expected we got Alice. Now we do not really want Alice to be in Lower case. You want it to be in uppercase. So now what you will do, you will make use of some Terraform function. So one of the Terraform function of upper that we were discussing. Let's go ahead and also try it out. So I will just say terraform console in here I'll say upper. So this is the Terraform function. And you can just provide a value like Alice. And in the output you see you have a uppercase a very simple function. Let's exit. So now what you can do. You can specify the function of upper and you can save this. Let's clear the screen I'll do a Terraform plan. And you see you got the output of Alice. Now you want the transformation to take place for all of the elements that are added as part of the list. So what you can do, you can add multiple for block. So I'll say for one for two just for simplicity. And I'll change the index here. So this is zero. This is one. This is two I'll save this I'll clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan once again. And this time you see we have Alice, we have Bob, you have John. So this is one rudimentary way of achieving a specific use case that we were discussing related to transforming the lowercase to uppercase. This also works. But again, as we have seen, you have to add multiple output blocks. And when the number of index or number of elements as part of a list or any other variable type increases, this is something that you do not really want. All right. So what I'll do I'll simply go ahead and I'll comment this out because we do not really want to use this way. So what we want to do, we want to use a better way using the for expression. So now I'll use an output I'll just say for expression. And within here again we'll specify value. And now instead of using this way we'll create a simple for expression. The simpler one, you have to use a square bracket. Again, it depends upon the use case. So we'll be using a simple square bracket. We'll say four. Then the next part you can have your own name. So I'll just call it as value. You can use any other name as well. It does not really matter for value in variable of user underscore name. So I'll say var dot user underscore names. Alright. This part is very simple to understand. It's a plain English. So for any value in this specific variable what do you want to do. So what do you want to do is separated using the colon. All right. And after this you can specify upper followed by value. All right. This is a very simple for expression. So first what it will do this part. It will fetch the values from the given list and whatever values that it has fetched. This value will be passed to this upper function and the transformation will take place accordingly. So I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. I'll do a terraform plan. And you see you have Alice. You have Bob, you have John. Now again, just for simplicity, this part value is something that you can give any name. So you can just call it as say V here. Also I'll call it as V or say I'll say XL here. Also I'll call it as XL. It does not really matter. I'll save this. I'll do a Terraform plan. We got the same output. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood what for expression is allowing us to do. Now again, for today's practical, we had used a very simple example where the variable type was list. However, you can use any other variable type as well. It works with map. It works with other data types as well. Depending upon the data type, the value can be fetched accordingly and the transformation can also take place accordingly. So with this, we'll conclude today's video.