Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss at an overview about the Terraform CLI commands and its options. Now generally, if you want to be good in Terraform, not only you should be able to write decent Terraform configuration, but you should also be aware about the various CLI commands and various sub options associated with those CLI commands, so that you are comfortable in running Terraform in wide set of environments. It can be manual based approach. It can be a CI CD pipeline. It can be some automation script through which Terraform is running and so on. So in today's video at an overview, we are going to explore this specific area. And in the subsequent videos we are going to discuss about various sub options in great detail. Now at a very high level. Overview. Note that various Terraform CLI commands also provides multiple set of options that you can use. Now what do I mean by CLI commands? Here it means common CLI commands that we use like terraform init terraform plan you have terraform apply, destroy, fmt, validate and so on. So all of these commands also have various set of options that are available that you can use along with them. Now why do these commands have options? The primary reason is to enhance the functionality. Now if you need a much more granular control over the infrastructure management process, then along with the CLI commands, you are also going to use the option sets that are made available for them. For example, let's say that you have Terraform plan. Now Terraform plan also has various set of options that you can use along with it. So for example this can be seen in the screenshot where you have various kind of options like compact warnings, detail exit code, generate config out input faults, and so on. So there are wide range of options that are available along with the Terraform plan, and also with various other CLI commands that you can make use of. And as a Terraform expert, you should be aware about some of the important options that are made available for various set of commands, and how these options can impact the overall infrastructure management process. So before we proceed further, let's go ahead and look into it at an overview. Now at this stage let's go ahead and explore two Terraform commands. One is Terraform plan and second is Terraform init. Now if you look into the documentation each of this command comes with its options. So if you will see let's go a bit down. You see there are so many options that are available that you can use along with the command like refresh, false replace, target, var and so on. And in fact, if you go a bit down, there are more options that are available. You see these are the ones that we were discussing in the slide as well. So all of these options allows you to fine tune a Terraform plan or whatever Terraform command that you are using for your specific use case. Similarly, even for Terraform init, you will see there are various set of options that are available even for this command, and many of these options are very important specifically when it comes to automated environments. Now, if you go a bit down, you will see that there are more options that are available. You see, there are so many options that are available here. And this goes not only with the plan and init command, but also with various other commands like apply, destroy, and so on. All of them have various set of options available. Great. Now at this stage I hope at a high level overview, you understood what are the main importance of these options that are made available for a specific command? Now note that there are various options that are very important, and we are going to discuss them in the subsequent videos. At this stage, we are keeping things at a high level overview only. Now, before we proceed further, there are a few important pointers that you have to keep a note of. First one is that depending upon the Terraform version that you are using, the command options can also change. So if you are using a newer version, it can happen. That newer version has come with its own set of new options to further fine tune how the process works. So this is one point that you have to keep a note of. Generally, from the documentation, you will be able to select the version that are available and based on it. The documentation and its options will also change. For example, if you look into the documentation at the top, you will generally see the option to choose the Terraform version that you are using. So this is one quick way where the documentation contains and also the options, if changed, will be updated based on the version that you have selected. The next important part is that we should be aware at an overview about the format in which we can define these options. For example, here you see that we have defined Terraform plan and there are two options that has been used. One is no color. Second one is detail exit code. So all of these options can be appended to the main command itself. And based on the options the output will be defined accordingly by Terraform. Now at this stage, we heavily rely on the Terraform documentation to get various details like what are the options available, what is the description? So if you do not know what a specific option does so the documentation also gives you a brief description about what the option is used for. So here we are heavily reliant on the documentation here. However, this is not the best approach to have. One of the good things about Terraform CLI is that all of the options that are made available also have a great set of CLI documentation. So generally if you just run Terraform, it will give you a great set of documentation related to what are the commands that are available and various other details. So let's go ahead and also try this out now from the CLI. If you just type Terraform here you see it will basically give you all of the commands. So these are all the major commands. So these are the main commands init validate plan apply and destroy. And there are also other commands that are available like console FMT and so on. And you also have a great set of description on what each command allows you to do. So this is one part, as we were discussing, even the main commands like init plan also has various set of options that you can use along with them. So in case if you are wondering on how we can find the options that are available for any of the commands, there is also a approach to achieve that, where you can use a specific command with a help option, which gives you all the details related to the options that are available along with its description. So let's go ahead and try this out. So I'll clear the screen. Now let's say I want to run Terraform plan. Now I also want to see what are the sub options that are available associated with it. So in a standard way what generally one would do they would go to the documentation page. First they'll have to identify what is the Terraform version that they are using. After identifying the version then from the documentation they'll have to select the appropriate version. And then they can go ahead and look into the options that are available and read the description. This is one way. However this takes a little amount of time. The quicker way would be you can use the command that you want to run and you can use hyphen H flag here, which stands for help. Now as soon as you type it here, you see you got all of the important information related to the options here. So you have destroy refresh only, and you also have a brief description associated with what each one of them does. For example detail exit code. Here you see you have zero, one and two. Similarly, if you see detail exit code in the Terraform doc, you have zero, one and two along with the description here. And the same thing is reflected here. Now the benefit of using the hyphen h option is that you don't have to switch between browser and CLI, and also you don't have to check on the Terraform version. All of the options that are available are for the Terraform version that you are using, so things become much more simpler here. All right, so I hope with this you also understood the importance of the help flag as part of running the Terraform CLI command. Now generally I remember during the time when I was doing Red hat certifications. So in Red hat you have no access to the documentation and the entire exam is practical oriented. Now, since documentation is not accessible for you, the only way in which you can remember the suboptions associated with the a command is using the hyphen H flag, and this is the reason why this specific pointer I remembered when I was doing the certification. This H flag was heavily used not only by me, but by all of the students who were preparing for the certification. And in fact, this is a good way to quickly go ahead and study things while you are doing a practical. Great. Now, before we conclude this video, there are a few pointers that you have to keep a note of. More to do with terminology. Now, in the context of Terraform CLI commands, you will generally see flags and options which generally refer to the similar thing, which are basically the additional parameters that you can use along with the primary CLI commands. So here you have to note that these terms of flag and options are used interchangeably. However, the more precise term would be the flags. So hyphen h or hyphen input is equal to false. So all of these are more precisely called as flags. But options are also acceptable here. For example, let me quickly show you. So we are in the command of Terraform FMT. So here you see in the usage you have Terraform FMT and you have. Options. So even if you do not use the options this is completely fine. These are. Optional. But these are all the options that you can make use of. Now here you see they have used the term. Of flags which states the following flags are available. And these are the set of flags. Now similarly if you look into the terraform init you will see they have said the following. Options apply to all of the initialization steps. So here they have used the term of options. All right so generally in the PPT slides. Also if you see options or if you see flags both of them will refer to the same thing. So there is no scope for confusion here. Great. So this is a very high level overview about the Terraform CLI commands. And also. The options that are available in the upcoming videos. We are going to discuss about some of the important options associated with the CLI commands, so that we are very familiar with running Terraform in all sorts of environments, be it a manual one as well as the automated one. So with this, we'll conclude today's video.