Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss the basic of the Terraform function of CSV decode. Now from the name itself we can identify what this function is allowing us to do which is to decode the CSV files. So before we go ahead and look into the practical aspect of this function, first let's revise the basics of the CSV files post, which will be looking into the CSV decode function now at a high level. Overview. CSV stands for the comma separated values, and it is a file format that makes use of this comma to separate the values and newlines to separate the records. So this is the demo dot csv file. You have commas between multiple values, and you also have newlines which are used to separate the record. Now from here it might be a little confusing on what CSV file looks like. However, when you try to open this up in an Excel sheet, it will make better sense. So just remember that each new line that you see over here, it represents one data record as part of the CSV file. So for example, if you open this up in say Excel sheet, it would look something similar to this where you have instance 1T2 micro ami 1234. So this is one record. Then you have a second record, then the third record, then the fourth record and so on. The first line generally is a header. And then you have multiple set of records that are being separated here. So in fact let me also quickly show you. So in the Cape Labs Terraform folder I have a file called as demo dot csv. Now again I'll be adding the contents of this file in our GitHub page for you to reference. Now if I open this file in Visual Studio it will look something similar to this. You see, you have the comma separated values and you have each record in each line. All right. So in GitHub I'll directly go ahead and I'll add this specific file contents. So generally what you can do if you just create a new file with test dot CSV and paste the contents, this becomes the CSV file. Now generally again it depends on the software that you have. I have the Microsoft Excel. So if I open the test dot csv, you see it looks something similar to this. Let's expand this. All right. So now it becomes much more easier to read. So when you have hundreds thousands of records. CSV is generally used in wide variety of use cases. So let's close this. Great. Now that we understand the basics of CSV, it is also important for us to understand the function in Terraform, which allows us to handle the CSV file. And the function that we were discussing is called as the CSV decode. So what this function does, it fetches the data from the CSV file and it produces a list of maps representing that data. So if you have this data, which is nothing but a CSV file, if you use the CSV decode function, the output would look something similar to this. So you see the instance underscore ID you see instance underscore ID is associated with each value instance one instance two instance three instance. For instance type again is associated with each value t2 micro, t2 small, and so on. You see T2 micro, T2 small, and so on. And as we are discussing each row here represents single data. So you have this single data, second single data, third single data and so on. So let's go ahead and also try this out. So what you can do again you can write a Terraform code. But we are going to keep it simple. First what we are going to do. We are going to make use of the Terraform console and will try things out here. Now when you use something like file and you specify the name of file, let's just call it as test dot csv. And if I press enter what you are getting you are getting the direct output of CSV. This is something that we already know. So now what you want. You want CSV decode to go ahead and decode this specific file. So what we can do, we can say CSV decode. And now you can use the file function. Because file function can fetch the contents of the file. So you can say file function. And within the file function you can specify the name of the file that you want to decode. And we'll press enter. So this time you see things are much more better formatted. So this is one row. So here you see you have instance one associated with instance one. You had t two micro which you see over here associated with instance one you have EMI 1234 that you see over here. So this is first record, second record, third record and the fourth record so many times what will happen is you want to create multiple set of instances with different set of configuration instance. One should have this EMI instance, one should have t two micro instance type and so on. So all of these configuration, you might see that they are added as part of the CSV file. So first important part before we go ahead and create EC2 instances with different configuration, is to figure out on how we can fetch each and every record individually. And this is where the CSV decode function proves to be very useful. Now, just for simplicity, I also wanted to show you the CSV decode function and the example that are being used as part of the documentation. So here you see instead of using the file function that we had used to fetch the value here the values are provided by default. So here you have ABC. Then you have a new line. Then you have 123 new line 456. So if you want to transform this to CSV first, in fact let's go ahead and try this out. I'll copy this. I'll clear the screen. If you press enter it would look something similar to this. Now sometimes this part creates a confusion. So let's go ahead and convert this manually to CSV. So from the Visual Studio I'll just call it as example dot CSV and will manually add the data here. So let's remove the CSV decode function. Let's also remove the new line. I'll remove the quotes so it will look something like this. A comma b comma c. This is the header. Then one comma two comma three. Then you have a new line. So in place of new line we'll just press enter for new line. So it looks something similar to this. All right. So very similar to test dot CSV. This part is the header instance id instance type. And am I here. Instead of that you have a you have B you have C. Then you have 123456. And this is the reason why since these are the headers the header will be associated with a value. So A will be associated with one. So this is one record A will be associated with four which is part of the second record. And the same you will be able to see here. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood the basics of the CSV decode function. And with this we'll conclude today's video.