Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about the four expressions in a little more detail so that we understand on how we can make use of it with wide variety of data types, and also some of the important flexibility and the important areas related to it. So let's go ahead and get started. Now in the earlier video, we already discussed the basics of for expression and how it can iterate over each element in a specific data type, and based on that, it can perform certain level of transformation. Now the data type that we had used was list. However, it is not necessary that always the values will come from list. It can come from wide variety of data types like map and when you have map, which is a little different from the list, the way in which the for expression would work would be slightly different. So let's go ahead and understand this. Now before we look into it, one point that we have to keep a note of which is that a for expressions input. So input is the one that we give after the in keyword. So here you see you have the in keyword here whatever input that you provide after this this input can be a list. It can be a set. It can be a tuple, a map or even a object. So there is a wide variety of flexibility that is available here. So first let's go ahead and start with map. Now as we already know that map can contain multiple set of key value pairs. And this is the reason why if you want to reference a map from A for expression, the approach will be slightly different, where you can make use of two symbols to reference to either the key portion of map or a value portion of map individually. So if you see we have a variable of map. Now in map, we already know you have the key portion, which is dev, the value portion which is am I123. Again key portion prod value portion. Am I456? So when you are making use of a four. Expression that fetches the value from map, you can go ahead and tell. For expression that you want to look into the value, or you want to look into the key. You have both the options over here. So depending upon what you want to fetch the transformation can also change accordingly. So first let's go ahead and quickly explore this part. Now for today's practical we have a simple file called as four underscore detail or TF. You have two variables here. As part of the file. You can get it from our GitHub page. One is of data type of list. Second is the data type of map. So you have a data type of map. In the default you have certain key value pair. You have a key of dev. This is value key of stage value key of prod value. So let's go ahead and make use of the output. Again we'll specify for expression. And within your in the value. This time we'll try a simple approach that we had used in the earlier video as well. I'll say for value in var dot ami we have a colon. I'll say upper value. Now the question that comes is since the for expression is referencing to the map this value part. Now again just to simplify I'll just call it as data. All right. So now the question comes is what data will it consider. Will it consider both of these. Will it consider this or will it consider this part. So let's go ahead and look into it practically. So from our labs Terraform folder I'll open up the terminal. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. Now at this stage you see it has considered the value part. So whatever value was present, it has automatically taken this. So the key aspect has not been taken. So now what happens if you just say key. Will this make a difference. Let's go ahead and try it out I'll save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do the Terraform plan again. Again. This time it has taken the value part of the map. It has not taken the key. So the question that comes is that now I want to also fetch the key part. I don't want to fetch the value. I want to fetch the key part. So it is important for us to understand on how for expression can reference to the key part and the value part individually. And this is where the second point comes into picture, which states that we can make use of two symbols to reference to a key and a value separately. So if you look into the code it will look something similar to this. So this time, instead of specifying just one, you specify two. You have k comma v. Now again this name can be changed. So you have two identifiers here. And based on that you can go ahead and supply the appropriate key and the appropriate value to the function that is being specified. Let's also try it out. Now what you can say within the for expression instead of just specifying one, I'll add a comma and I'll specify two. So now for expression is intelligent. To understand that first part it will be associated with the key. Second part will be associated with the value. So now the key is already present here I'll save this. This time when I do a Terraform plan you see it has taken the key aspect from the map. All right. So I hope with this you understood the basics on how you can reference to the key part and the value part whenever you are specifying the map. Now, again, just for reference, this name can be based on your choice. You can just also call it as a B, and within here you can just say as a. This will also work. I'll save this. I'll clear the screen. I'll just do a terraform plan again. The output remains to be the same. Great. So this is the first important learning of today's video on how we can make use of for expression with a map. So let's go with the second important learning, which states that you can also make use of two symbol forms. So this I comma v is what is being referenced here as two symbol. So the two symbol form can also work with lists and tuples, in which the additional symbol is the index of each element. This is very important part to remember. So in fact let's go ahead and directly start with practical so that we understand this. So for example here you have the variable of username. So here we have used two symbols. So what happens if you use these two symbols for the data type of list, let's try this out. I'll add one more output value here. This time we'll specify var dot user underscore names. Now what happens if you are using two. So this is what the second slide was all about which states that you are allowed to make use of two. However, whenever an additional symbol is used for data type like list, then that additional symbol is associated with the index. So we know that this has an index of zero. This has an index of one, this has an index of two and so on. So let's try this out. I'll clear the screen. When you do a Terraform plan this time we got an error because the name of output values are same. Let me just call it as list. I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll run Terraform plan. This time we'll ignore this. This is associated with the earlier expression. This is associated with the list that we were discussing. So you see it is checking the index. So you have an index of zero index of one index of two. And if you just change it to be this time it will refer to the actual value and not the index key associated with each element. So now if you do terraform plan you see you have Alice, you have Bob, and you have John. Now along with that, in fact, let me just comment this out. Along with that, you can also have a better flexibility. So you do not always need to use the upper function. So let's say you want to print out the actual value. So that is also something that can be done. So you can say something like A is associated with B. All right. Now one small change that you will have to do because here it is giving an error. You can just remove this double quotes here. All right. So that should fix the issue. Let's save this. Let's go ahead and do the Terraform plan. And now you see zero is associated with Alice. One is associated with Bob. Two is associated with John. So depending upon what you want you can change this part as well. Great. So I hope with this you understood this two symbol form that we were discussing specifically for data type like list. Now one point that you have to keep a note of like for practical we had used A and B. However generally as a good practice whenever you are referencing to the index like zero, one and two, instead of using a A, you can use something like I, I, or ID because when someone is reading the code, it becomes much more simpler for them to understand what it is doing. So if you say I, I stands for index and if you have a V, we know it stands with value. So a better naming convention will help you in the longer run, specifically in production environments. The next important part is related to filtering the elements. Now again this is quite useful. So now what you can do. You can add a optional if clause as part of your for expression that can be used to filter things. So for example for data in var dot user underscore names, we know that it will go ahead and iterate over each element. You are saying update data. However, you also have an optional condition which states that if data is not equal to Alice. So this part will only work if data is not equal to Alice. And if you see in the output, you are only getting Bob and John. So if clause again is quite useful in a wide variety of use cases, and at an overview, you should know that this exists as part of the for expression. Let's also try this out. So now we'll go ahead and comment this part as well. In fact, let's comment out the entire code. We'll just use this variable to begin with. We'll just copy this. And this time let's say we'll just add a value. And in here also we'll add a value. So here we know it will go ahead and transform all the value to uppercase. In fact let's try this out before we proceed further. So this is the before. Now within here you can add if for filtering. And you can say data is not equal to whatever value that you specify which is Alice. Now again this part is something that you can change according to your requirement. Let's just save the change. I'll do a Terraform plan. We got an error. Let's look into what the error is all about. The data object must be followed by two attribute names. So one mistake that we did was that we have used value in both the places. However, here we have used data so I will just change it to value. So now I'll clear the screen. We'll do a terraform plan. This time it has conveniently excluded the Alice because of the if clause. And we only have Bob and John. You can also say something like equal to equal to Alice. So now what will happen? Only Alice value will be transformed to uppercase. So now if you do terraform plan, only Alice value has been transformed. Great. So I hope with this you also understood the basics of filtering elements. The next important part is related to tuple. Now whenever we make use of brackets around the for expression, it basically determines what type of result it produces. So as of now we have been making use of the square brackets which produces the tuple. However, based on the use case you can also make use of the curly brackets here, similar to what you see. So here we are not making use of the square brackets. We are making use of the curly brackets. And in case if you are using the curly brackets, the result here would be an object. And in such cases you must also provide two result expression that are separated by the equals greater than symbol. You can also refer to as hash rocket. So if you see this time we have the curly braces and you have this specific symbol over here. So now what will happen is the data at this stage. The first part here is the data. Now this data is the actual data that is being fetched. So this is the reason why you see it in lower case which is Alice. And then you are making use of this symbol as a separator. So this acts as a separator. And on the right hand side you have the actual transformed data which you can see over here. Let's also go ahead and try this out. So this time we'll go ahead and comment this as well. Let's copy this and I'll add it over here. So instead of square brackets we'll make use of the curly braces here. All right. Now as we know that we are looking for the result of object. So what you can do you can say value. So after this you have to use this symbol. And now you can use the function like upper value. So you will have the pre value whatever is present here. And you have the transformed value here. Let's save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. You see Alice is equal to transformed value. Bob is equal to transform value and so on. Great. So that's a very high level overview about the for expression. We looked into it in a little more detail and how it works with a wide variety of data types the filtering aspect as well. So with this we'll conclude today's video.