Hi everyone and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss on how we can create multiple resources based on the values that are defined in a CSV file. So this is going to be a very interesting video with a lot of learnings. So let's get started. Now the use case that we want to implement as part of today's video is very simple. Where you have a CSV file, and this CSV file contains detail of four EC2 instances that needs to be created. Each EC2 instance has a separate instance type and a separate ami ID that is available. So what you need to do, you need to go ahead and create a AWS instance block, not multiple instance block for each entry, but one single AWS underscore instance block that makes use of some kind of looping that can check the contents of this CSV file, fetch the values and the values will be computed automatically. So this is the use case. Let's go ahead and get started now for today's video under KP Labs Terraform folder I have a simple file of instance hyphen config. Let's quickly open this up. So this is a simple CSV file. And in this csv file we have four specific entries here. Each entry here is associated with a separate instance type and a separate Army ID. So in total we need to create four EC2 instances based on the values that are defined as part of the CSV. So again, in fact, if I open this up with Excel it would look something similar to this. Let's quickly look into it. It looks something similar to this. Now before we go ahead and create the appropriate looping with for each and any other method required, first we have to extract this data from the CSV file. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and create a file called as main.tf. And the first thing that we need to do is we need to have some kind of a value storage where for each can fetch the data from. So what we are going to do? We are going to create a locals and inside the locals we will say instances. And within here we are going to make use of the CSV decode function. And inside the CSV decode function, we will make use of the file function to reference to the CSV file, which is instance hyphen config dot csv. This is the first important part, so whatever value that will be fetched from here will be associated with this under locals. So in fact you can always also manually verify this. Let's copy this. And from our folder I'll quickly open up the terminal. Let's run this manually. In fact we need to do the Terraform console. And inside the Terraform console we can run this manually to verify if we are getting the data. Now this data is very important as part of the foreach so that it can loop through each of the data record and fetch the value accordingly. This is first and a very important part. Now we can start with the AWS instance resource type. So from the documentation associated with the AWS instance let's copy this. And let me just add it over here. We'll remove the unnecessary part. We'll keep it very simple with the army and the instance type. This is the base code. Now we already know that we want to loop the data based on the contents of the CSV file. So in order to do that for each is a very important meta argument that we need to make use of. So you can say for each and within here we have to specify the location from which the value can be fetched. Now all of the values are stored here. Now in fact, before we go ahead and create the for each, let me quickly show you. So generally when you say output Values. And if the value is local dot instances. All right. All we are doing. First we are decoding the value associated with this CSV file and associating this with instances. And then we are outputting it. Let's quickly see if we are able to see the output. Let's come out of Terraform console. We'll do a Terraform plan. And yes we are able to see this output. So this specific approach seems to be working fine. Now let's uncomment the AWS underscore instance code. Now ideally what you might do is you can specify local dot instances. So what this will do whatever value this has. So this specific value will be given to for each. And in the army what you want you have to make use of the each object something like each dot value dot for the army, you need to refer to the army part. So this is also referred to as army. So it becomes simple something like this. Similarly for instance type also each dot value dot. Let's see whether instance type is stored. Again the name is same so I'll just call it as instance underscore type. So this is the base code. Let's go ahead and see if it is working or not I'll save this I'll clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan. At this stage we are getting an error related to the dependency log file. Let's just do a quick terraform init. Great. So now let's do terraform plan and see if it is working or not. And this time we got an error. So let's analyze the error. What does the error states. The given for each argument value is unsuitable. The for each argument must be a map or a set of strings, and you have provided a value of type. List of object. Now we know that if you are making use of the foreach meta argument, it requires a set or it requires a map. However, the error what it is saying that whatever value that the foreach meta argument is getting from here, this value is not a map or not a set, and this is the reason why it is showing you an error. So let's do one thing. Let's comment this code again and let's do a Terraform plan. Now this specific value that we are seeing over here, this is not a map. In fact, just for simplicity, if I do a Terraform console let's run this function once again. So here you see in the output of this in the output of this you have two list. And in this you have all of this value. Now because of this specific part the foreach is not working. So what you would like is you want to convert this to a map so that our for each meta argument can work. So just to revise the challenge that we have been facing, which is whenever you are making use of the CSV decode function, Terraform will convert this into a list of maps. This is something that we saw. However, the issue here is that the foreach cannot work with a list because if you see in this list, you do not really have a unique key associated with each data record. So this is the reason why you are getting an error specifically with foreach. So what you need to do, we want to transfer the list of maps that we just saw to a map which has a unique key, so that the foreach meta argument can work. So it would look something similar to this, where you have this before output and you want to convert it to the new output. Now if you look into the new output here, each record has a unique key. For example instance one is equal to. Then you have some entries. Instance two is equal to. Then you have some entries. So you need something similar to this. So when a unique key is assigned to a map, it becomes easier for the foreach meta argument to loop through each one of this record. And the overall practical will also work. So we need to transform these specific values from this to this. Now what is the way in which we can transform the values? And the answer to this is using the for expression. So let's comment out this. So what you need to do you have to do some level of transformation so that we get a map. And that map must have some unique keys. So what you can do instead of directly referencing to this part you can add a for expression here. Now again in the for expression we will use the curly braces because we do not need a tuple. And you can say for let's say data in Local Dot instances. This much is simple to understand. So now we have asked the for expression to fetch the data from this specific locals. Now what you want to do with that data. So if you see we need a unique key associated with each record. And the unique key here is instance one. Instance two. Instance three. In fact, if you look into the Excel sheet, this part, this part can be a unique key or a unique identifier for each record. So here what you can say. You can say data dot. What exactly in this data do you need I will say instance id. So I'll say data dot instance underscore ID. And we want it to be transformed so that it acts as a unique key for a specific record. So what you can just say data. So let's look into what exactly this will do. First, it will fetch the value. This is something that we already know. So in fact, let's copy one of this record just for simplicity. It will fetch the value something similar to this from here as part of the first iteration. Now what you are saying data dot instance underscore id. So what is the instance underscore id associated with this record. It is instance one. All right. So this will act as a unique identifier here. And then you have this specific data. All right. So for this data block this is a unique identifier. Then second loop let's copy this. Let's add it over here again we have data dot instance underscore id. So instance id value is this. So it will look something like this. So for this specific map instance two is going to be the unique identifier here. So this is what it is doing now once the foreach is getting the appropriate type of values that it needs, the each dot value. What this will do, it will first go to the unique key one, which is instance one, and it will fetch the value associated with the army. Once it has then. Then the instance type also will go to the unique key of instance one. Fetch the value of instance type. So this is done as part of first loop. Then it will go to the unique key of instance two. And inside this again you will fetch the army and you will fetch the instance type. All right so let's go ahead and we'll save this. We do not really need this specific output values. Let's save. This will come out of the Terraform console. Let's see if our for expression works as expected I'll do a Terraform plan. And this time you see for to add you can always verify this. In fact let's go up. We'll verify it with the CSV. So if you see in the identifier here AWS underscore instance dot web followed by instance one, then you have the instance two and so on. So this is the unique identifier. And first is EMI 1234 and T2 micro. So if you look into the CSV sheet EMI 1234 t2 micro then t2 small Ami 4576. Let's verify for instance two EMI 4576 t2 small and same for other instance resource here as well. Now again, one more thing that I wanted to share in case if you face some issue where things are not working and you want to troubleshoot, you want to see exactly what kind of data this is outputting, what you can do. You can just say locals and inside the locals you can add this for expression. All right. And now you can do something like output of four. And in the value you can say something like local dot four. All right. Let's just temporarily comment out the resources part. So this will give you the output of what exactly this four expression is doing. Let's clear the screen I'll do a Terraform plan. And this time you see you have instance one is equal to. And then you have the record here. Same with the instance two. Same with instance three. And same with instance four. So this is the value that you really require as part of the for each meta argument. Because each record here has a unique key. Instance one, instance two, instance three, and so on. Now in the earlier output that we had seen when we had a list of maps, although the data was correctly formatted, but the unique key for each record was not really present. And that creates multiple issues specifically whenever you're using the for each meta argument. So that's the overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.