Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the nested loops in for expression. Now at a very high level overview. Nested loop is a loop that is specified inside another loop. Now in this case we are discussing about four expression. So it is four expression that is defined inside one more for expression. So if you see in this screenshot you have two variables. And in the output values you have a four expression here which is fetching the data associated with variable of list zero one. And inside this you have one more for expression that is fetching the data of the list zero two. And together they are outputting the data of both the list zero one and list zero two. All right. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and take this example as a reference to understand in detail on how the nested loops work. Now for today's video in the KP Labs Terraform folder I do not really have any files. So let's quickly open this up with Visual Studio Code. And within here I'll go ahead and I'll quickly create a file called as nested for.tf. And within a very similar to the example that we were discussing, I'll create a list called as list zero one. The type will be list and the default value. Let's say one two, three. In a similar way, I'll add one more variable of list zero two and the value would be 456. Once you have this defined, we'll add an output value and in the value we'll play around with for expression and a little bit. So generally let's say that you want to fetch a value associated with a specific variable using for expression. So what you will do you will say for say data in var dot list underscore zero one. What do you want to do with this. You want to print data. So now in the output what we will get we will get one, we will get two, we will get three. Let's save this. Let's go ahead and open this up with terminal. And we'll go ahead and we'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve. And we got one, two and three. Now this is simple to understand. Now let's say that you want the value to contain data of this variable. And the second variable also. However this for expression can only work with a single variable here. So what you can do you can have multiple for expression here which is nested. So instead of just outputting the data associated with this list you can have one more for expression here. So inside this you can say something like for now you need to use a different symbol. Let's just call it as value in var dot list underscore zero two. All right. So this is the outer. This is the inner. Once you have defined both of this, what do you want in the output is something that you can define here. So let's say just for simplicity since we are starting I'll just specify data. So irrespective of what value this for expression because it will iterate through each of the elements in the list. However, in the output as part of the CLI, we are not really defining the value. Here we are defining the data. Now, one interesting thing that needs to be noted here since you have a nested structure, let's see what really happens step by step. Now first this specific code will run for data in var dot list underscore zero one. So as part of the first iteration, the value associated with this for expression will be one. Now you have one more for expression that we were discussing for value in the var list underscore zero two. And what is the value? The value is four And in the output what we are specifying data. So the final value as part of the CLI output would be one which is this specific one. Now one very important part to remember in a nesting structure is that the inner loop needs to be completed first for the second iteration of the outer loop to take place. Now when will this inner loop complete? It will complete after it has read each element here. So as part of the second iteration of the inner loop, it would look something similar to this. You have one. All right. Because you are still in the first iteration of the outer loop, but you are in the second iteration of the inner loop. So in the second iteration you will have five. However, the output will be one. In the third iteration of the inner loop again you will have one, then you will have six and the final output will be one. All right. So this marks the Marks completion of one iteration of the inner loop. Now, when we discuss about outer loop, there are two more elements. So this outer loop will also run in total of three times. So this is the first time where it has run. So in the second time the outer loop will have the value of two. Now again the inner loop will run and inner loop will again go through all the three elements. And then only it will mark it as completed. So in the second iteration of the inner loop it will have the value of four, and the final value will be what final value will be the one that is associated with the outer loop. In this case it is two. Similarly, two five outer will be two, two, six outer will be two. All right. And since there are three elements totally this will run three times. So third time it will be three four. Final output will be three, three, five, three, three, six, three. All right. So I hope you understood what exactly is happening. Let's go ahead and comment this out. Once you understand this, it will become much more simpler to play around with this. Let's save this now. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply. And similar to what we were discussing 111222333. All right. Similar to the output 111222333I hope with this you understood what this is trying to do. Now you do not necessarily have to just use this data. You can also add a value here. So you can add a string where you specify data and you specify value. All right. So based on this based on the learning that we have just discussed, can you manually try to identify what will be the output. In fact, let's do that before we do a Terraform apply. So as we were discussing first the outer loop will run. So in the first iteration of the outer loop it will have a value of one. And then the inner loop will start. And as we are discussing inner loop needs to be completed for the second iteration of the outer loop to start. So in the first iteration of the inner loop what will be the value? Value will be four. Then you have one. You will have five. You will have one, you will have six. So this marks the completion of the inner loop as part of the iteration one. Now in the iteration two it goes to the outer loop here. Then you have number two. So you will have 242526 and so on. All right. So I hope you got the gist on what it is trying to do. Let's go ahead and verify if you are getting similar output will clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply and as expected you see 141516242526141516242526. Alright, so I hope with this you understood this part again, you can go ahead and try it out. This is important because if you understand this concept, things will become much more easier at a later stage. So before we proceed further, a few important pointers to note. First one is that for each iteration of the outer loop, all of the iteration of the inner loop are executed before moving on to the next iteration of the outer loop. This is something that we saw, and we manually also tried to identify the value. So this part should be clear. Second important pointer is that you can reference the data associated with the outer loop from the inner loop also. So this is also something that needs to be noted. So now that we understand the basics we'll go with an example number one where this is the code that is being given to you, and you have to identify what this code is trying to do without running it in your environment. Now you can go ahead and look into what this range function allows you to do, because without that you will not be able to understand. In fact, let's go ahead and try this out. So what I will do, just for simplicity, I'll just comment out this code and we'll add the newer code. So I'll go ahead and I'll add the second example code over here. So before we go ahead and try this out, let us try to calculate what would be the probable output when we do a terraform. Apply. Now before we do that, it is important for us to understand what exactly this range function is trying to do. So just for simplicity, what you can do, you can just run the Terraform console command. You can just try a range of three and the output here is zero, one and two. So what you can do, you can just say x will have the value of zero 012. Similarly, you have y. So in y you have range 1 to 10. I'll copy this. Let's add it here. And what is the output. The output is 1 to 9. So let's add it here 123456789. All right. Now that we know what the value of x and what the value of y is, now we can start with analyzing the for expression here. Now as we know first it will start with an outer loop. So outer loop first time it will have a value of zero. The inner loop will have the value of one. And since here we are printing y which is associated with the inner loop, the final output will be one. Now, as we were discussing, the inner loop needs to complete all of its iteration before it again moves to the outer loop here. So it has to complete all of the iterations. So in the second iteration of the inner loop again the x will have a value of zero, y will have a value of two and you will have two. In a similar way you have zero three, three and so on. So ultimately what will happen? You will have 123, four, 567, eight nine. So 1 to 9 numbers will be printed as part of the first iteration. Here, because the Y has a value of 123456789. In fact, let's just change it to nine. All right. So in the first iteration you will have 1 to 9. After the first iteration of the inner loop completes, Terraform will again go to the second iteration of the outer loop. Now in the second iteration of the outer loop, what will happen? The value associated with the outer loop will be one. All right. So you'll have one. And after the second iteration completes, then again you are going back to the inner loop, which needs to complete all of its iteration. So again it will be one. One final will be 112 final will be 213 final will be three. So all of these are the Y values here. So ultimately again you will have 1 to 9. And how many elements are present in X which is associated with the outer loop. There are in total of three elements. So what will happen? 1 to 9 will be printed in total of three times. And after that the entire looping completes. So this is the basics. In fact let's go ahead and also try this out. So hopefully here you will get 1 to 9 three times. Let's come out of this. We'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Oops we made a small typo. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform, apply with auto approve. And as expected you see one, two, nine. This is one list 1 to 9. Second list 1 to 9 third list. Now in case if you would like just for simplicity you can just use a flatten function here. We'll save this. We'll do an output. So this time you have one big list with all of the values that are being printed. And again in case if you would like, you can also use a distinct in case if you need a distinct values. So this time what will happen. You will have only one time 1 to 9. All right. So you have a single list of 1 to 9 here. Great. So I hope with this you understood the nested loop with one more example here. Great. So that's a very high level overview about the nested loops. I hope with this you got a gist on what this specific feature allows us to do. And with this we will conclude today's video.