Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about two of the Terraform functions. One is flatten. Second one is distinct. So let's get started. Now the first terraform function is flatten and at a high level. Overview. The flatten function. It transforms a list of list or even a complex nested structure into a single flattened list. For example, if you look into the screenshot, you have a flatten function. Now you have a list of lists that you have provided 1234, five six. So you have multiple inner list here, and after passing it through flatten, you have a single flatten list that is made available here. So let's do one thing before we proceed further. Let's go ahead and try this out post which will be discussing about other areas here. Now from our CP Labs Terraform folder, I'll quickly open up the terminal and within here I'll quickly run the Terraform console command. And within here we'll start with flatten and we'll pass some data. We'll use list of list I'll say 123. Four five, six. All right. So there are multiple lists inside a list here. Let's close this. When I press enter we have a single flattened list as an output. So I hope with this you understood what the flatten function is trying to do. Now we have taken two examples as part of today's video. Example number one is something very similar to the one that we were discussing where you have multiple set of values one to a, B, two false and so on. So you have number, you have string, you have boolean. And since they are part of the list they have been flattened perfectly well. So now let's also explore the example number two which is a list of maps. Now within here let's assume that we want to fetch all the data associated with tags. So you have http https web application and back end. So this is where again the flatten function proves to be very useful. So let's also in fact go ahead and try this out post which will be discussing about the distinct function. Now for today's video in the KP labs Terraform folder I have a file called as flatten.tf. Let's open this up with code And within. Here I have a simple locals file with a list of maps over here. Now let's say that I want to fetch all of the data that you see over here. So there are again multiple ways. Let's go ahead and do an output. And within here in the value we can add a for expression here. So I'll say for data in instance underscore configs. So you also have to specify local dot instance underscore configs. And what do you want to do with the data. You want to print it here. So something like this. All right. Now what this will do. It will print all of this information which we do not really want what we want. We only want the tags related information to be made available. So what you can do within here you can just say data dot tags. So only this information will be printed to us in the output. Let's go ahead and try this out for our terminal where console was running. I'll just do a Ctrl C to come out of it. Now let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. Now you see in the output we are getting this list and we are getting this list. In fact, let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply with auto approve. And this is the output that we got which is multiple set of list. Now generally you would not really prefer that again based on situation to situation. But in most cases you might want to have a single flattened list. So it's much more easier to extract data from. So in that case what you can do, you can just use a flatten function here I'll save this will clear the screen I'll do a terraform apply. And this time you see you have a single list in the output with all of the data. Now this looks much more better. And also if you are referencing it, it is also much more easier. Great. So I hope with this you understood the basics about the flatten function in Terraform. The next function that you need to keep a note of is the distinct function and what it does. It takes a list and returns a new list with any duplicate elements removed. So here you see a b a C, D, B and whatever duplicate elements are present. For example, B is there multiple times. However, in the output you only have one time over here. So this is what the distinct function does. Let's also go ahead and try it out. So let's just consider that even in tags there are some duplicate tags that are available. So let's say http https. I'll just add it over here. So you do not really want a duplicate tags to be made available. So what you can do you can just add a distinct. Within your I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform apply and you have five output here http, https, web application and backend. And no duplicates are present. Now in a similar way, if I just remove the distinct function from here, let's do a Terraform apply. Now you see you have duplicate values that are available. All right. So I hope with this you understood both of these functions. And with this we will conclude today's video.