Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about an important feature in Terraform which is templates. Now one thing that we need to remember is that template is not some unique feature that is only associated with Terraform. In fact, you will see this feature in other tools as well, specifically Ansible. So in Ansible, templates are quite popular to achieve wide variety of use cases. However, the basic concept remains to be the same. If you understand about the templates in Terraform, you will be able to use it in other tools as well. If you are already aware about templates and Ansible, then templates in Terraform are quite similar. So let's go ahead and understand more in detail about what this specific feature is all about. Now, one of the easiest way in which we can understand the template is using a simple analogy, where we have been using wide variety of base templates for many use cases. For example, if you have a happy birthday message, you have some kind of a template. You will modify that template here. For example, in this screenshot you might modify the name. You might modify the date over here. The other part of the base template will remain to be the same even. Here you will see the base part will remain to be the same. Just some aspects of this will change, like the date. Similarly, nowadays you will see many of the websites. They are also built using some base templates. So you have many popular websites like Themeforest which will give you a base template. And then you can modify the base template and you can host your own website accordingly. Now when we discuss about Terraform, you might have lot of base configuration file that you might want to modify depending upon the environment. So let us understand this with a simple example of a nginx configuration file. Now if you see again you don't really need to understand what this means. We are more focused towards the hard coded value that is added here. So you have a nginx.conf and if you see you have some hard coded value like the port here is hard coded. The server name, which is KP labs dot internal is hard coded. Then you have the proxypass within near the IP address is hardcoded and the port also is hardcoded. Now from here we can easily understand. Since hard coding is done, you might not be able to use this simple configuration file for all of the environments. So depending upon the environment, certain aspect of this configuration file might need to change. For example, let's say for production environment you do not really want 80 over 80 port to be enabled. You want four four, three because you will have a TLS https website that will be enabled and server name is KP labs dot internal. This might not really work for a production environment. So what you want you want server name to be much more resolvable throughout the internet. In this case you want it to be KP labs dot n. Then maybe in some environment like development environment, you might want the port to be 80 instead of 8080 and server name can be KP labs, dot internal and various others. So when you have this kind of a requirement where you have a file and you want to modify certain aspects of this file. In such case, the templates proves to be very useful. So what you generally do in template is that whatever file is present. Now again, note that this is not a TTF file. This is a external file here. And whatever file that is present over here, you can go ahead and add a placeholder here. So instead of hard coding lesson 8080 you have a placeholder that you have added. This is something very similar to the concept of variable. So at a high level overview when we discuss about a template it is a file that contains these placeholders that we see that you want to replace with a dynamic values. Now since this file is not present directly as part of Terraform, but Terraform will have to load it directly or indirectly because this placeholder will be replaced with the dynamic values. Whatever you have added as part of your Terraform file. So when we discuss about these placeholders, they are enclosed with this specific format. As you can see, and using this format, it allows Terraform to insert the values during runtime. Now we will be discussing on how exactly this works practically. Let's understand this theoretically first post, which will start with practicals. All right. Now when we discuss about adding the value associated with the placeholder template file function proves to be very useful. So what the template file function does, it first loads the file where we have added the placeholder. And then you can add the variables whatever value that you want to associate in those placeholder. For example, if you look into this we have a template file function. First we load this nginx dot tftp file. So if you see this file is nginx dot tftp l, you load this file and then you add the appropriate value associated with the placeholder that you have provided. So here key one is basically one of the placeholder here. Now again, in this specific screenshot, you do not have a placeholder with the name of key one. It can be nginx, underscore, port, and so on. But just for simplicity we have a key one value one. Key two. Value two. All right. Now since this is a local file, the final file which is the nginx.conf that will be created in that final file, the placeholder will be replaced with the values that you have provided here. So this is the basic concept of the template file. Let's go ahead and try this out. Now for today's video we have a very simple file with the name of base hyphen nginx.conf. I will also be adding this file as part of our git repository so that you can reference to it. Let's open up the Visual Studio Code quickly. So this is the base nginx file, very similar to the screenshot that we were discussing. This file contains multiple set of hard coded values. And this is something that you do not really want. So let's go ahead and create a Terraform configuration file with the name of template.tf. This is going to be a very simple file. We are going to make use of local file resource and within here within the local file we know you have a content and you have the file name. So the final file name what we want let's say nginx.conf. This is the final file name that we want. And in the content basically we want this specific content. But it should have some kind of a dynamic value. So first let's do one thing. Let's just call it as ingenix.tf TPL. And we'll go ahead and copy this and we'll add it here. Now as we were discussing this specific hardcoded values here, we do not want we want it to be much more dynamic. So here we can add a placeholder. So let's say I'll call it as Nginx underscore port just for an example and server name. I'll just call it as server underscore name. We are only going to discuss with two just for an example, but in case if you would like you can also modify other things here. So this is the basic template. As we were discussing. You can use the template file function to load the template file and also add the appropriate variable values here. So we'll use a template file function. In fact let me also quickly show you. So when you discuss about the template file function you have a very simple syntax. You have a template file followed by the path of the actual template file. And then you have the vars here. So this is the path of the template file nginx dot tftp l. So what we are going to do first we are going to load this file nginx dot tftp l. This is the first part. So this is something that we have done. Second part is the vase. So whatever placeholder that we were discussing, these are the variables. And you can add the values associated with the variables here. So let's go ahead and do that. So the first placeholder that we had added was nginx underscore port. So let's say nginx underscore port equals to I'll say 80. And the second one was server underscore name server underscore name equals to let's say KP labs dot in. All right. So this is generally how you can define things. You can save this now from the CLI. Let's go ahead and quickly do a terraform init. Once this is done you can quickly do a terraform validate. And the configuration is valid. So let's try it out I'll quickly do a Terraform apply with auto approve. So you have a Nginx.conf. Now if you open the nginx.conf, you see the placeholder variables have been replaced here. Now, one more thing that I wanted to show you. Let's say that you have decided to also remove the hard coding for this specific part. All right, so just for simplicity, let's just also call it as back end underscore IP. And this part also will say back end underscore port. So now again as we know we will have to add the appropriate values here. In fact we had modified the base Nginx.conf instead of this. Let's just add it to the TFTP file. Let's quickly do that once this is done. When you do a Terraform validate we got an error. Why we got an error. Because there are certain placeholders where we have not really added the appropriate values. For example back end underscore IP. Tribe. So now what you'll have to do, you will have to add it here. Let's in fact do that as a backend underscore IP is equal to let's say ten .77 30 dot two. And one more which is backend underscore port equals to say 8080. Let's save this. We'll clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform validate. Things are working. We'll go ahead and do a Terraform apply auto approve. Let's verify the final file again which is nginx.conf. And this is the final values here. Now one thing that you will notice the more variables and placeholders that you add as part of the file, the more difficult it is to read because you have to scroll at write sometimes. Again, this is a very small configuration file. Sometimes configuration files are quite lengthy. In such case it is quite difficult if you add, say 10 or 15 variable values. It becomes a little difficult to scroll, right? And so on. So what you can also do, you can also format it. In fact, many of them would do something like in a new line you can say something like this. All right. So now you see it is much more easier to read. And this also looks quite decent. So let's save this to ensure everything is working. Let's just change this from 2 to 5 to ensure that the new file is the updated one. Let's do a terraform. Apply again. Apply is completed now if you look into the nginx.conf yes, it has been replaced. So we can identify this is the newer updated file. All right. So again this is something that you should ideally use for production environment as it is easier to read. Now before we conclude this video, one important pointer that you need to note specifically related to the naming convention. First one is that the start or TFTP URL? This is something that we have implemented. So this kind of an extension format is recommended naming pattern to use for your template file. Why it is recommended because it is quite easy to identify which are the actual template files in the project. So within your note that Terraform will not prevent you from using other names. So there is a flexibility. It is not 100% compulsory, but if you are following this specific convention, if any one else from your team who is looking into your project, if he sees this file, it will be very easy for him to understand that okay, this is a template file. There will be some kind of a template file function, which will be used to dynamically compute the values that are part of the template file, and overall, it will be a much more better experience for the entire team. If a standard naming convention and the extension convention is followed. So that's a very high level overview about the templates in Terraform, and with this will conclude today's video.