Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about Template file in little more detail. And we are going to focus on the aspects on how you can use the template file while dealing with lists and maps. And we are also going to make use of how you can make use of for expression while creating templates. Now, before we do that, let us understand the base challenge here. Now many times what you will see is that some of the base configuration here will have some repetitive configuration. So in this resolv.conf, although the name server values are different, but this part of name server remains to be the same. All right. So generally when you convert it to a template it will look something similar to this name server DNS server one, DNS server two, DNS server three and so on. Sometimes configuration will have multiple set of repeated values. And what you will need to do, you will have to add multiple set of variables as part of the TFTP file. So there is a better way in which you can deal with such kind of a scenarios, and that is by making use of a for expression. Now we already know the basics of for expression. Good news is that it can be integrated as part of your template file as well. Now what you can do is in the template file instead of specifying name server followed by server one, server two, and server three, you can use a for expression and you can iterate it over a list or map of variables, depending again upon the requirements. So if you see you have a for now, again there is a little different on how you define the for expression. So you have a for and you have a n for. So this marks the start. This marks the end. So you have for DNS in DNS underscore IPS. So DNS underscore IPS. Again this is where the values will be defined in annual specifying name server followed by DNS. And then you have the end of for expression. Now again, when you try this out practically, it will make better sense. But we are just looking into it theoretically post which will be discussing things in detail. So now when you look into the actual configuration, it would look something similar to this template file structure. We already know you have a template file function. You specify the path of the template and then you have to specify the values. Now since here you are specifying the values defined in DNS underscore IPS within. Here you have DNS underscore IPS. This is a list followed by multiple set of values here. So for each value that is been defined in this list, the for expression will go ahead and it will iterate it. And the name server will be computed with each value. So first you have name server 8888. Then you will have name server 4444. Then you have name server 1077 0.2, and so on. So in case if you have ten name servers, which is highly unlikely. You don't have to define it ten times within the result or ftpl. It will be computed here. Now again, the resolv.conf is one of the examples. But in production environments you will have quite good use cases where this can prove to be very useful. All right. So let's go ahead and try this out. Now for today's video I have a very simple file in CP labs Terraform folder which is resolv.conf. Again you will find this file as part of our git repository. So when you open this with Visual Studio Code, this file contains three nameserver details similar to the screenshot that we have seen. Now let's do one thing. First. Let's go ahead and convert it to a template file. Let's do that. I'll just call it as resolve dot tftp l and we'll keep it simple. I'll just copy this here. We'll replace this with a placeholder values. Let's say DNS server zero one second. Zero two. Third. Zero three. All right. This is the first step. Second step. We'll create a file. Let's just call it as template hyphen dns.tf. We'll quickly define a resource of local underscore file. And within here you have two important arguments. One is the content and second is the file name. File name. First let's go ahead and add it I'll say is resolve hyphen final dot conf. And in the content we already know that since we are going to load a template, we are going to make use of the template file function within. Here. The first part is the path of the template file which is resolved.tf tpl. This is one and second part is the variable. So whatever variable that you have added you have to add the appropriate values. All right. So let's go ahead and do that. So first is the DNS server zero one the value. Let's just call it as 8888. The second is DNS server two. The value 4444. Third is DNS server three. The value is 1077 0.2. All right I'll save this from our CP labs Terraform folder. I'll quickly open up the terminal. We'll do a Terraform validate. The validation is completed. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply auto approve. So the apply is completed. Now if you look into the final file this is how the final file looks like. This is one simple thing that we already know. So now let's go with the step two where we'll go ahead. And instead of specifying multiple repeatable values we are going to make use of the for expression here. So the overall format of for expression would look something similar to this, specifically when we discuss about the template. So we'll say for DNS. Now again this part you can change in DNS underscore IPS. All right. Let's just quickly align it. And to close it you have to specify end for. All right. Now within here you can specify whatever you want the final file to contain. So I'll say name server. Now in the for expression this is the folder which will contain each of the value as part of the iteration. So in first iteration it will contain this value second iteration this value and so on. So you want whatever value this placeholder has to be computed here. So you can just say as DNS. All right. So this is the basic format on how you can define a for expression. Just for simplicity. I'll save this. Now, within your. Let's copy this. I'll place it here. We'll go ahead and we'll comment out the first part. All right. We'll work with this. Now since you have DNS underscore IPS, you will have to replace this. So we can say DNS underscore IPS. And we do not really want multiple blocks here. And this will be a list. All right. So let's add a values here. And 1077 0.2. All right. You can add it in one line. Also I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll quickly do a Terraform validate. And the configuration is valid. That is good. We'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Now before we do that I'll just change it to dot five so that we are sure that the final file is updated based on this code. So I'll do a Terraform apply auto approve. Things are done now if you open up the final file. This is how it really looks like. Now. One thing that you will notice is that in the screenshot that we were discussing, you have the tilde mark that is being used over here. However, in the tf tpl file we have not really used it and it is still working. So now let us understand the importance of tilde as part of the tf tpl file. So in the next slide I have added the screenshot where first where the tilde mark is used. Second which does not really contain it. So from the screenshot you will be able to identify what difference each one of this makes. So let's quickly revise. So the tilde at the end suppresses the newline that would normally be inserted after this line. So if you see after one iteration there will be a new line that will be added. So in case if you do not want a new line to be added, you can add this here. So this is associated with the first one. And if you do not add a tilde, Terraform would add a new line after the for statement which could result in unwanted extra space. So this extra space that you see it gets added. So in fact let's also look into it. So if you look into the final output you have extra space after each iteration. This is something that you do not really want. So in order to do that you can add a tilde. Here I'll save this. Now let's do a terraform. Apply again. Now if you look into the final dot conf you see it is much more better. Now before we conclude today's video, I also wanted to show you on how you can make use of for expression while dealing with maps in template. Now in the earlier example we had made use of list and this was a simple and straightforward approach. And when we discuss about maps again. It is quite similar. So you have a four and you have N4. Now since map contains key value pair, you will have to add two symbols here. So first symbol is config key. Second symbol is config value. All right so for config key config value in config you have a set. So earlier we had a name server. So set will remain to be same for each iteration. Then you have a config key is equal to config value. Now if you look here you have a template file. You load the map dot tftp and then you have a config. So in this config you have multiple set of key value pairs. So this is what you are referencing to for config key and config value. For each key and value in this config, print out set followed by each key value pair here. So if you look into the output it would look something similar to this set foo is equal to bar, key is equal to value and x is equal to y from here. All right let's go ahead and also try this out. So let's do one thing. Let's copy this and we'll add one more. I'll just call it as map and we'll just comment out the previous code just for simplicity. All right. Now we already know that this time we are planning to test it with maps. So for maps what do you need. Let's specify. So instead of DNS underscore ips I'll say config. And within here let's specify key value. Key one equals to value one. Then key two equals to value two. We'll just use two sets of key value pairs. I'll save this. And in the file name I'll just call it as final hyphen map dot conf. So based on this now what you have to do you have to create a template file. I'll just call it as map dot tftp l. Now we already know the basic syntax. First, you have the for this time, since you have the key and value and you have to reference to both of them, you will have to add two symbols. Let's just call it as key value in followed by. You have to specify this config. All right. This is the first. And then you have to also add n for. This is simple to understand. Now for each key and value what do you want. You can say set or you can add any other word. It does not really matter followed by each iteration of this. So let's say key. And then you can say equal to again equal to is not necessary. You can also say is value all right once then you can save this. So from the CLI let's go ahead and quickly do a Terraform validate. Alright, so we are getting an error. Invalid value var map does not contain key DNS underscore IPS reference. That result dot tftp. So if you will just open this we have to change this name to reference to the right template which is map dot tftp el. Now if you do a Terraform validate it seems to be working. Let's do a Terraform apply auto approve. Apply is completed. And now if you see final map you see set key one is value one. Set key two is value two. Alright so again this is quite simple. Both the list and maps is quite simple and in production environment sometimes you will get a use case related to each one of them. So it is better that we understand the basic approach on how you can deal with different data types here. So that's a very high level overview. And with this we will conclude today's video.