Hi everyone and welcome back. So today's video is going to be more of an exercise where we have some sample mock data that is available. And based on that data, we look into how we can retrieve values from the file by making use of the for expression. Now the sample data, which is based on JSON, is available for today's video. And it is also committed as part of the git repository. So you have to make sure that you download it. For today's practical, let me also quickly show you so in CP Labs Terraform folder. This time we have two files. One is config dot JSON and second is demo tf. If I'll quickly open this with Visual Studio Code, it will look something similar to this where you have a demo tf, you have config dot JSON config.json. Again, this is a JSON file with some data that is available and in demo tf, we have a simple JSON decode function which basically decodes this specific config dot JSON file. So now there will be certain use cases and based on the use cases we need to create for. Expression to solve and retrieve certain part of the data from this file. So let's go ahead and look into each use case one by one. So the use case number one is quite simple where you have to extract the data that is part of this file using the for expression. Let's go ahead and try this out. So what you can do you can just create an output value. And within your let's say for data in locals dot config. What do you want as an output I want output as data. All right a very simple approach here. Let's go ahead and save this. Let's open this up with terminal. Let's do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve. And you should have data within the output. Over here. The use case number two states that you have to extract the name of the servers that are part of the JSON file. For example. You see you have server names like web zero two, DB zero one and so on. So you have to retrieve it with the output. Something similar to this one that you see in the screenshot. So let's do one thing. So the first one I'll just call it as use case zero one. I'll comment this out. Let's start with use case zero two. Within here again we are going to make use of for expression. So what we basically want is within the servers you have this name web zero one, web zero two db zero one. So all of this server name needs to be extracted. Now generally before we go ahead and extract the server name first, it is important for us to understand on how we can retrieve the value associated with the data inside the server, because in the earlier output we had retrieved all of the data. So this would also mean that the network related data, the features related data was also outputted. So in the screenshot you would see you have the feature related data. You have the network related data that was made available in the output. So this time you only want the data as part of the servers. So generally what you can do is for local. In fact let's try it out for data in local dot config dot servers the output would be data. So when you save this, let's clear the screen. When you do a terraform apply. This time all of the subnet related information or features related information will not be present. In this case, only the information related to server. So there should be total of three blocks that would be available, similar to the three blocks that you see as part of the config JSON file. Now once we identify that we are able to retrieve only server related data. Now we can optimize it further where we can say from this specific data that is being shown to us, I'll say data dot names. In fact it is name. So let's do a name. Let's save this. We'll clear the screen on Terraform. Apply. You see, this time you only see web zero one, web zero two and DB zero one. The use case number three is that you have to associate IP address with each server name from the file. So if you see you have the name of the server and you have the IP address. So you need an output something similar to this. So it looks more of a map. So you have DB zero one followed by the IP address web zero one followed by IP web zero two followed by the IP. So let's also try this out. So we'll comment the use case two. Let's start with the use case number three. and within a year we'll have to create a for expression. Now if you see this is more of a map. So this is the reason why we'll use the curly braces. And within here I'll say for data in local config what do we need. We need data dot name. And for map we need data dot. Let's verify where the IP address is. It is here data dot IP. All right let's save this after clearing the screen when you do a terraform apply we got an error. What does the error say. Unsupported attribute. This value does not have any attributes. So the issue with this code is we have specified local dot config. This basically will take all of this data. So we can be very explicit stating servers. All right, let's clear the screen. This time when you do an apply, we got an output similar to the screenshot here. The use case number four is to find the production IP addresses. So each data block here has an environment. Some has an environment of development, some has an environment of production and so on. So we only want the IP addresses associated with the production environment based servers. So let's also go ahead and try it out. I'll just comment out the use case three. We'll use the use case four. And within here we'll say for data in local dot config dot servers. Now we only need the IP address of the server if the environment is production. So currently if you see there are two IPS where environment is production one where the environment is development. So at this stage, if you say S dot IP, let's verify this. I'll clear the screen. If I do a terraform apply we are getting an error. IP has not been declared in the root module. We did a small mistake. Instead of S we should use data. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a terraform apply. And at this stage we are getting IP addresses of all three servers. So this basic code is working. But it is still not optimized because it is giving IP address associated with development also. So now what you can do within here you can add a if condition. If data dot environment is not equal to or to be more precise you can say equals to production. Alright let me just maximize this so that we can read. So this if condition is important here. Let's save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a terraform apply. And we got an error. What does the error states. This object does not have an attribute name environment. So in fact let's read our config.json file. Now you see the environment is not directly available outside. In fact it is available inside the metadata. So what you can do you can say data dot metadata dot environment. So this would make better sense. We'll clear the screen on Terraform apply. This time we are getting 1.1 and one dot ten. Let's verify we should get 1.1 associated with production and one dot ten associated with production. The use case number five states that extract unique values across all of the roles into a single flattened list. So now what we want is this rolls part right. You have web roll, you have DB roll and so on. So you want to fetch this data and you want to have a unique value. And also it must be within a single flattened list. So let's also try this out. So now if you'll quickly see the web zero one server has two role web app, web zero two has one role web and DB zero one has role of DB. So here there is some Duplicacy that is available because web is present in both the places. So distinct value must be present. No duplicate values is required as part of the use case. So let's go ahead and try it out. So I'll say output use case zero five. Within here I'll add a value. So let's use the same details for data in local dot config dot servers. Now what we want. We want to fetch the data associated with roles. So if you try something like data dot roles, let's see what is the output. I'll clear the screen. In the Terraform apply we got the roles related information web app web and db. So at this stage what is happening is you have Duplicacy and you have multiple list. All right. You have list one. You have list two and list three. However what we want we want a flattened list. So next step what you can do. You can use the flatten function to make sure that you get a flattened list here. Let's save this. We'll do a terraform apply and this time it is much more better. You have a flattened list, but still the duplicate elements are present. So now what you can do. You can add one more function of distinct to remove the duplicate elements. I'll save this. If I do a terraform apply. This time you have a web app and db. Now the use case six states that you want to extract server name with the server environment in brackets, something like web zero one followed by the server environment. This part and it must be in this bracket. So let's also look into how we can achieve this. So I'll just comment this. Let's create one more output values. Use case zero six. And within here let's create a for expression for data in local dot config dot servers. Now first part that we need here is the server name. So you can say data dot name. All right let's verify. Yeah data dot name. Let's save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply. So we are getting the name information here. Second what we need. We need the environment as well. So in fact, what you can do in the string itself, you can do something like this followed by say let's verify the environment is in metadata dot environment. So metadata dot environment I'll add here. Let's verify if we are getting the output here I'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply. So we are getting an error manage resource metadata environment has not been declared. So we made a small mistake here. It should be data dot metadata dot environment. Now if you do a terraform apply this time it is working web zero one production. However as we know it must be in this specific format. So what you can do, you can just compute it Here's something similar to this. Alright, let's see if this works. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a terraform apply. And yes, we are seeing the output similar to the requirement number six. The use case number seven states that you want to extract details of the IP addresses of all of the servers, along with the role related information. So it should be in a format something similar to this. So for example 1921681.2 which is the second entry here, followed by roles and the name of the role which is web. So DB 1921681.1, followed by roles, followed by the actual role which is DB. So let's also quickly look into how we can achieve this. So let's go ahead and comment the earlier use cases. Let's add one more output block use case zero seven value. Again the base value will remain to be same for data in local dot config dot servers. So this part remains to be the same. Now what do you require? First thing you require is a IP address. So what you can do we'll just add a string of data dot IP. All right. So data dot IP will fetch the IP information. Then what we require. Roles. So within here you can say something like roles. And then you have to provide the details associated with the roles. So in such cases if you try to let's say if you try to add something like data dot roles. All right you have roles. Data dot roles. Let's see if this works I'll clear the screen I'll do a terraform apply. And at this stage we are getting an error. What it is stating invalid template interpolation value. So the error is mostly related to this part, right? Data dot roles. It is stating that data dot roles is a tuple with one element cannot include the given value in a string. Template string is required. So what you can do, you need to have some function that can take the value. Now you have to see what is the kind of value that roles has. So the value that roles has is a list. So when you have a list and you want a function that can take a list and it can convert it to a appropriate string. And this is where join function can prove to be useful. So if you see join produces a string by concatenating all of the elements of the specified list of strings with a specified separator. So this can be useful. So what you can do within your. Let's add a join. Now what is going to be the separator of the elements here. The separator here you see is a comma. So let's add the separator here. All right. After you have defined a separator which is this part. Now you have to provide the list here. So this you can provide by say data dot rules. All right. And this again since this within the string you can say something like all right so let's save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform apply. And this time you see it seems to be working. All right. So I hope with this you understood this specific approach here. This again is important. And based on requirement to requirement basis you might have to add a function here. Great. So these are the seven basic use cases that allows us to learn on how we can extract some data using for expression from a JSON file. So with this we'll conclude today's video.