Harry one and welcome back. Now in this specific video and also in the upcoming set of videos, we are going to look into how we can create resources based on the content of the CSV file data. And this is the exercise number one. Again we will have multiple set of exercises that covers different set of use cases. But the main aim that I wanted to ensure that we learn is that many a times you will see that in real world environment, you will have some range of IP addresses that you might want to whitelist as part of firewall. For example, this is a JSON file, and within the JSON file you see there are multiple set of IP addresses that are listed over here, which you might want to whitelist. Now this is one part. Now whitelist might not always be just fetch the IP. There might be some condition as well. For example, only whitelist the IP address where the region is EU central one. So depending upon the condition, you need to fetch the IP address from an external file and that needs to be whitelisted as part of the firewall. So these are some of the common use cases that you might encounter while working with Terraform. And the aim of this specific exercise and the upcoming set of exercises is to make sure that we are comfortable to deal with such kind of scenarios. Now, again, note that the file format can change. It does not really matter much, as long as the relevant information is present in whichever format, the overall solution will be quite similar. So as part of the exercise, number one, let's look into what are the things that we need to do now. In Git Hub, we have a CSV file that has been presented to you, and based on the content of the CSV file, you have to create inbound and outbound security group rules dynamically using the AWS VPC security Group Ingress rule and AWS VPC security Group Egress rule. Now, if you see there are in total of four rules that are part of the CSV file, two of them has a direction of in which is basically the inbound rule, which must be created using the first resource type here, and the rule three and rule four has a direction of out. So that basically means this is an outbound rule, and it must be created using the second part, which is the VPC security group egress rule. All right. Now again note that you need to fetch the contents dynamically from the CSV file. And no hard coding is required. Now sometimes what happens is we have seen users hard coded. Now. Hard code is fine. Let's say that you only have 3 or 4 rules as part of CSV. In such cases it is fine. But what happens if you have such a extensive JSON file? Are you going to hard code everything? Or even if you have managed to hard code it? What happens if after one week half of the Cidr blocks are changed in the updated file? So hard coding is not something that we should be looking for. We should look on how we can fetch the values dynamically from a file and create the rules accordingly. All right. Now as part of today's video I have a file called as SG hyphen one dot csv that is available now if I open this with Visual Studio Code. The content of the file is very similar to the screenshot that we had seen. So in total there are four rules. Two of them are inbound. Two of them are outbound. Now the first thing that we are going to do, let's go ahead and create a file called as use case zero 1.tf. This is the file where we are going to implement things. Now before you go ahead and start to fetch the data and use it in the VPC security group ingress and egress rule. First thing is we need to be able to fetch the data based on the format of the file. Now, since this file is based on CSV, let's go ahead and fetch it. So I'll just call it as CSV data. And we are going to make use of the CSV decode function. Since this is a CSV file. And within here I'll reference to file. And inside here you can specify as hyphen 01. CSV. All right, this is the bass part. Once you have written this, it is also important for you to verify if this works. So in the value you can just say local dot CSV underscore data. So just verify if this works because we'll be using this in a lot of other areas as part of code. Now in our CPP labs Terraform folder let's open this up with terminal. And within here we'll quickly do Terraform plan. And as expected we are getting the appropriate data. If you see you have four rules two inbound rule. You have one two rule zero one. Rule zero two is inbound rule zero three. Rule zero four is outbound. You can also verify these two are inbound. These two are outbound. That is great. Now once you have added an ability to fetch the content from the CSV file, the next important thing is we have to split it because there are two different resource types that are going to use the data to create the rules. You do not really want a VPC security group ingress rule to fetch the rule zero three. Rule zero four. And similarly, you don't want the egress rule to fetch the zero one and zero two. So you have to go ahead and split the rules based on inbound and outbound. So let's go ahead and do that. So first let's go ahead and add inbound rule. And within here we'll add a for expression I'll say for rule in local dot CSV underscore data. What do we need. We need the rules. So I'll say rule provided if rule dot direction. Because from the direction we can identify whether it is a inbound or outbound rule. Rule dot direction equals to in. Let's just maximize this. All right. So I hope with this you understood what this is trying to do. Let's test it. So within the output values I'll add this will clear the screen. We'll run the Terraform plan. This time you should see only rule zero one and rule zero two. So this is good. In a similar way, I'll just copy this and add it here. This time I'll say outbound Rule and within here I'll say out. All right. Now you can just also change it to outbound. Let's do a Terraform plan. And this time you see zero three and zero four. This is great. So now what we can do is when we create a security group ingress rule, instead of directly passing over this data, we can pass the data associated with inbound rule so that it only sees this two entries. It will not see these two last entries for ingress and similarly for egress as well. So for the VPC security group ingress rule, let's go ahead and copy the snippet. Now before you go ahead and create a ingress or egress rule, it is important for us to have a basic security group. Alright, so let's copy both of them and within here I'll just add it here. Security group. We'll keep it very simple. Let's just call it as use case zero one SC. Alright now for this specific security group. In fact let me also show it to you from the perspective of AWS. So basically whatever security group that we create for a security group, we want certain inbound rules that you see over here and certain outbound rules that you see over here based on the CSV data. Now, for this specific security group, all of these values like Cidr block from port, everything is mentioned over here. So we need to fetch it from the CSV itself. In our case we want to fetch it from here which is inbound rules. Alright so let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and change it to inbound rules. Let's go ahead and comment out this specific resource. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. So this is the format. So based on this specific format we need to extract certain data. So let's go ahead and remove the comment. Now what we need to do since you have multiple entries as part of this we are going to make use of for each. All right. So it will be something like for each and within here. One very important part to remember is that for each primarily accepts a map or a set. Now if you look into this a map, when you pass it to for each, it needs to have a unique key. So in here you do not really have a unique key that is available. And this will create issue. All right. So certain level of transformation is required. So in fact before we add it as part of for each I'll show you over here. So in for each I'll say that we need to create a map. All right. So for data in local dot inbound underscore rules. What we need. You need to find some unique data that represents each entry. So in this entry, what is unique when compared to the second entry. The unique part is this. So I'll say rule or data dot the name which is this part data dot name. And then you create a map and then you say data. All right. So now what this will do. In fact let's just comment this again I just wanted to ensure there is no confusion before we add it in the security group ingress. What this will do. It will use this as a unique identifier key for the map that it will generate based on this data. All right let's try it out. So this time I'll just change it to for each. Let's save this. Let's run Terraform plan. Now this time when you compare this specific output and when you compare this specific output, What is the primary difference that you see? The primary difference that you see here is that this part, for each map that is created, there is a unique key on it. This is a unique key. This is a unique key. Now when you use a foreach you require that map has a unique key. Otherwise if keys are not unique then it will not really work properly. All right. So this is where we are building a map with a unique key for the for each year. So you can just copy it here. Let's remove the comment. Finally. Now within the Cidr IPv4, since we are passing this specific data the value needs to be fetched from here. All right. So you can say each dot value dot where exactly is the Cidr block provided this place right Cidr underscore block key. So I'll add it over here. Similarly let's add each dot value for all of the places in the port. Just see where is the port. So this is the port 443. So I'll say port. Same for two port. And in the IP protocol just verify where is the protocol mentioned. It is mentioned here. So you can just specify protocol. Let's save this. Let's see if this actually works. So I'll just comment out the output value because this was just for testing. Let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform init in case if there are no provider plugins. And then you can do a Terraform plan. So in total there should be two security group rules that should have been created and one security group resource. This is a security group resource. And in the security group rule you see you have this which is rule zero one. And you have this which is rule zero two. In a similar way, even for the VPC security group egress rule. Let's copy the snippet and we'll add it over here. The foreach will remain to be the same, except except this time we are not referencing to the inbound rule. We are referencing to the outbound rules here. So let's just change it to outbound rules. Everything else will remain to be the same because again you have Cidr block from port to port and IP protocol. So you can just copy from the previous entries. You can add it over here. Once this is done, you can do a Terraform plan to verify if everything is working. Things look good. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve and we'll see the final output in the console so that it's easier to view. All right. So everything is created successfully now from the AWS console. Let's go back to the security group over here. You see we have this security group that is created as part of this security group. You can verify the inbound and outbound entry. So the inbound entry has port 80 and 443. Let's verify from CSV file. The inbound entry over here has port 80 and 443. And the outbound entry has 8443 and 3306. And if you look into the outbound entries here, it has the 8443 and 3306. All right. So once you have completed with the practical you can again go ahead and destroy all of the resources that you have created. Great. So that's a high level overview about the exercise. Number one we will also have multiple set of exercises with different set of content in the CSV file. And based on the content, the overall solution that needs to be created will also change. So this is going to be something which is quite interesting. So that's about it for today's video and I'll see you in the next video.