Hi everyone, and welcome to the exercise number two. Again, the main aim remains to be quite similar to the exercise number one. However, there is a small change in terms of the CSV file that you will see now in terms of change, the only change that is added here is the name. So in the exercise number one, each rule had a unique name. For example rule zero one. Rule zero two. Rule three. Rule four. However, this time you have common names across multiple rule sets that are available and what you need to do. You have to go ahead and create security group both ingress and egress based on this data. So let's look into how we can approach this specific solution. Now just for better reference, I also have the solution of the exercise number one that we had implemented earlier. Now for this specific solution, if you try to use it for the exercise number two CAC, which is H02 CSV, it will not really work. Why? Because you do not have a unique name. And within here we had made use of for each where the map that were created were based on this specific data as a unique key. Now let's understand this in a better terms. So let's create a new file. I'll say use case hyphen zero 2.tf. And I'll just copy the content of the previous exercise that we had used over here. All right. Now let's go ahead. And this time we'll just change this file to the updated file which is xG hyphen 02. csv. Let's go ahead and see the output of the for each here. So now when I do a Terraform plan you see we are getting an error. What is the error duplicate object key. Now in such cases let's assume that you change the name. If you make this unique, then again it will start to work similar to the exercise number one. Now in such scenarios where you are not able to find something that is unique, then easier way is to use the index. This is very important part to note is that since you are building a map, you also have option of adding a index. So first let's do one thing. Let's maximize this. Now again we had discussed about index in the earlier video. The aim of this exercise is to bring it to practical scenarios. Now whenever you have a scenario where map is used, then you can also add an index, something similar to this. All right. For index data in local inbound rules. This time you can say data dot index and create a map of data. So now what will happen is the index part will change for each entry. So this will have index of zero. This will have index of one. This will have index of two. And this will have index of three. So now if you try to do a Terraform plan we are getting an error stating this object does not have a attribute of index. Now this is fine because we made a small mistake because it is trying to find the index from this file. So you can just specify index here. All right let's save this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan this time. And now you see you have index of zero index of one. And this will be unique because for each entry you will have a separate index. And this is one of the quick ways in which you can go ahead and build a map with a unique set of keys. Turkey's considering there are no unique fields as part of the data. All right. So once you have used this specific approach let's go ahead and try to implement the solution. We'll use the similar code that we had used in the exercise. Number one definitely the for each part will change. So let's copy the for each for both the ingress as well as the egress rule. And we'll just make sure that the output part is removed. Let's just change it to use case zero to SG. Now just to verify if everything is working. You can just do a Terraform apply with auto approve. All right. So the apply is completed. So you will see for ingress rule you will have index of zero and one. And for egress rule you will have a separate index of zero and one. Why. Because they are separated as part of the inbound as well as outbound rules. All right. So I hope with this you understood on how you can deal with scenarios where there are no unique values that you can find. In such cases, the index proves to be quite useful. So with this we'll conclude today's video.