Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to go ahead and discuss about the importance of setting input of False in your Terraform CLI command. Specifically when you are running it as part of the automation. So with this let's get started. Now the first important part that we need to remember is that for wide variety of use cases, if you have not really defined a value as part of your Terraform code, Terraform will not really give an error. Instead, terraform through the CLI, it will prompt to provide the appropriate value associated with the variable that is not defined. Now one of the benefits here again you do not really see an error. However, the disadvantage here is that in an automated environment, if you have this kind of a setup, then you will not really be able to enter the value and your script will be stuck. So this is the reason why whenever you are working with automated environments, the overall command, the overall approach that you will be using will be a little different so that it suits the automated systems and scripts. So before we proceed, let's go ahead and quickly look into this. Now for today's practical, we have a file called as input hyphen. Falstaff a very simple file. What does it do? It creates a local file of hello.txt with the content of foo. Now, before we go ahead and look into the step two, let's go ahead and quickly try this out. Now from a folder of CPP labs Terraform. Let's go ahead and quickly open up the terminal. And let's go ahead and do a Terraform init in case if you have not done it. And then we'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve. So this was pretty quick. Apply is completed. And you see in the same folder we have a new file of Hello.txt. And from the Visual Studio if you open this file you have a content of foo. Now this is completely fine. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and quickly delete this file. I'll also just delete the TF state file. Now in the step number two let's go ahead and make this as variable called as var dot file underscore name, and in the same code we'll define a variable of file underscore name. All right. And we'll not really be adding any value. Now since this variable is undefined. As we know Terraform will not directly give you an error. Instead, if you do a Terraform plan, it will ask you to enter the value associated with the variable and then it can proceed accordingly. Now, since again we were discussing. Since this is a manual environment, I have a flexibility to give the value. But when you have something like automated scripts or CI, CD pipeline and so on, then this specific flexibility will not be available. Now sometimes what happens is in an automated environment your output will be stuck here. So now what is happen? It is waiting for the value. It is not really proceeding, it is not really giving an error. So in automated systems, what you would want is when something is not defined and when it is asking to manually give an input. You do not really want that. You want Terraform to immediately give an error so that your automation system can fail immediately, and then you can improve upon your code accordingly. And in order to achieve that, you can make use of input is equal to false as part of your CLI command. Now what will happen in this case is that Terraform will not really ask you for a input value to be added as part of the CLI. Terraform will immediately fail if a input is required. And in automated system this is what you want. You want your code to run successfully or if it is going to get stuck, it should immediately fail. All right, so this is what the second point is also emphasizing, which states that providing input through CLI is possible in manual environment, but not feasible in the automated environment. So let's also go ahead and try this out. So let's do a control C here. Now after we did a control C we got an error. Before that it was at this stage only. Now let's do a Terraform plan. This time we'll specify input is equal to false. Now, immediately. You see, it did not ask us for the input. It immediately failed stating no value for the required variable. Now, before we conclude few important pointers that you have to keep a note of first one that we were already discussing that by adding a input of false as part of your Terraform CLI commands, it indicates that Terraform should not attempt to prompt for an input, and instead Terraform should expect that all of the necessary values should be provided for now, in an automated environment like CI, CD, pipeline, and so on. Ideally, all the necessary values must be provided, and this is the reason why input of false is often used in such environments. Second is the input of False is supported in wide variety of Terraform CLI commands, so it is not necessary that it only works with the Terraform plan that we were discussing. It also works with other set of commands, which we'll be looking in just a moment here. Now let us also take a look into the example number two, which provides us a better clarity about the input of faults with other CLI commands. So within here we have a screenshot. What is this screenshot. This is associated with the backend of S3. So whatever remote state that you store it must be stored in the backend of S3. Now if we look into the screenshot you have defined a bucket. So this is the S3 bucket where your TF state file should be stored. And you also have defined the region where this bucket resides. Now whenever you define a backend of S3, there is one more important component of key that must be defined, for example in the backend of S3. If you look into the example configuration, you have to specify a bucket, you have to specify a region, and you also have to specify the key. So the key is where your terraform.tf state file gets stored. Now in this screenshot, if you see since the key is not really specified, what will happen when you do a terraform init. So terraform init will go ahead and it will ask you to provide the value associated with the key. Again, as we are discussing in an automated environment, you cannot enter the value. The value must be already defined as part of your configuration or the CLI commands here. So again within here we have a different command. Instead of plan we have a init. And in order to solve this issue as we are discussing either everything must be present as part of the configuration file or environment variable, or the command should fail immediately. It should not really get stuck. So let's go ahead and also explore this. Now for our second example I already have the code. Again you can find it as part of GitHub. So let me just add it over here. So now what it is doing. We have this specific local file. And whatever TF state that gets created it must be created in this specific S3 bucket. Now again you can just leave it as it is. Let's go ahead and save this. And just for simplicity, we'll just add a value associated with the file name. I'll just call it as hello Dot txt. So at least it does not ask us to provide the value. Here, I'll save this. Now, whenever a new backend is added as part of the configuration file, you need to do terraform init. Now, as soon as you are doing terraform init, as you are seeing it is asking us for a value and it will get stuck here unless and until you provide a value. All right, so let's just do a control C here. Now again here you can do a terraform init with the input of false. Let's press enter. And immediately here you see we got an error. And this error is good because it has clearly indicated that something is missing as part of the configuration file. And automated system should fail immediately. Great. So I hope with this you understood the importance of setting input of false as part of your CLI command, specifically in environments where automation is used, maybe CI, CD pipeline, maybe some kind of scripts and so on. So with this we'll conclude today's video.