Hi everyone, and welcome to the exercise number three, where we are going to go ahead and create a resource based on the CSV file data. Now again the format is very similar to exercise one and two. However with a little change in the CSV file. So this time as part of exercise number three, we have to create only inbound security group rule using this specific resource type. Why? Because CSV file only has a direction of in. This is one part. Second part. Again here the rule names are not unique. All the rules have the same name. And the next important part here, and this is the main part where port over here is divided. So you have 8443. You have four four 3 to 4 four five. So this is a range of port and you have 80 to 100. Again this is a range of port. So now you have to design a solution that takes into account the range of port as part of the solution. Now before we do that, let me also quickly show you on how it might look like in a live environment. Now, generally whenever you create a rule in AWS, let's add a rule over here. Let's say TCP rule within here you have a port range. So you have option to either specify 443 or you can say for example 8200. All right. So this is the entire range. So you don't really have to create multiple rules for each entry. 80 8182 etc.. And then just for example I'll add 0000. And within a single rule over here you see the entire range is covered. So this is what we are trying to build. So let's go ahead. And in fact we'll remove this rule. This was just for demonstration. Now within our Cape Labs Terraform folder this time we have one more file called as SG hyphen zero 3.tf. And if we open this with vs code, you will see it looks something similar to the one in screenshot total. There are three entries Over here you have entry where you have only one port and you have entry where you have range of ports that are defined over here. Now when you discuss about the VPC security Group ingress rule, there is an option where you have from port and two port. So this basically allows you to specify a range. So you can say 8100. So now the port ranging from 80 to 100 will be allowed. So this is what we are planning to make use of. All right. So let's go ahead and create a file called as use case zero 3.tf. This time again we'll quickly build locals to fetch the data from this CSV file. So I'll just say CSV data equals to CSV decode. Then you have the file function, and then you fetch the data from AZ 03. csv. Now this is the base part. The next part over here is that we have to ensure that this specific portion, for example, let's say this specific portion that you see over here, it needs to be split in a way that in the from port you have this entry. And in the two port you have this specific entry. All right. So the overall logic that you will need to implement is slightly different. So let's go ahead and do that now. Within here I'll say processed data. And within here let's say for data in CSV data what we need we need to build a map. So what I'll say in here I'll build a map with a key of name equals to data dot name. All right. So I'll say data dot name. This is one part. Then you have the second part which is direction I'll say data dot direction. The third part is protocol. So in fact let's copy this. Third part is protocol. Fourth part is Cidr block. And fifth part here is the port. So port is where we have to make some modifications. So before we do that let's specify data dot protocol. And within here I'll say data dot Cidr underscore block. This is fine. Now since we are building a custom map over here we have certain amount of flexibility. So for example whatever map that gets created over here, we will be adding it as part of this ingress rule. Now in this ingress rule you have from port and you have two port. So since we are building it custom you can say from port equals to two. Port equals two. Now, similar to what we were discussing at this stage, if you just say data dot port, what will happen? In fact, let's do one thing. Let's first do an output of this so that it's easier. I'll say local dot processed data. I'll save this now from the terminal. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. At this stage we are getting an error. A reference to resource type must be followed by at least one attribute access specifying the resource name. All right. So we made a small mistake. Instead of CSV data you should specify local dot CSV underscore data. All right. So that it references to this I'll save this. We'll clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan. And this time you see it is working. Now the main issue here again is port. You have 443445443. Hyphen 4351445. This when you pass to the security group resource, it will not really work. Why? Because security group already has two different arguments that are available to specify a range. So for one argument you directly cannot specify 80 to 100. All right. So now what you need to do. You need to add some logic for this two part over here so that it splits this into multiple entries. And first entry goes here. And second entry goes here. Now one more thing over here is that the rule which is the last one over here does not really have the range. So you have to create a logic which supports both this and the other type of ranges defined. So within here what we are going to do. We are going to make use of a can function along with few other functions. So let's look into what it does. Can evaluates the given expression and returns a boolean value indicating whether the expression produced a result without any errors. So if you see you get a true or you get a false, and this is where you add the appropriate expression. So basically before we go ahead and build a logic, I wanted to show you what exactly we are building. All right. So let's look into it. What we are trying to build is if Terraform finds that a specific entry in port has this hyphen, because hyphen is related to range. So if Terraform finds hyphen this is one important condition. And for this we are going to make use of can because can can give us true or false. All right. So can will allow us to find true or false. So if Terraform finds this then for first two entries you have true. And the last entry you have false. Now if this is true so if true then we want to split this part. Alright, so this four, four, three. Needs to be splitted to four, four three and 445. Two different numbers. So this is where the split function proves to be useful. So you can add the appropriate separator and you can split it. All right. So if true then it needs to be splitted. And once it is splitted then the logic is the first entry as part of the split which would be index zero. This will be associated with the from port entry. And the second entry which is the index of one will be associated with two port. All right. So this logic will be sufficient for this two. Now what happens if Terraform finds that this specific separator is not present. All right. So what if Terraform finds that separator is not present, so can function as we know it will result in output of false. Then in such case we want whatever value that is specified as part of port, whatever value specified. Use that for both from and to port. All right. So I hope this kind of approach makes sense. So let's do one thing. I'll just remove it. I'll just temporarily add it in test dot txt here. So let's go ahead and build it. So if you see first if Terraform finds this specific separator now within here what you can do. You can also make use of regex. So let's do one thing. First I'm going to make use of can function. And then we are going to make use of a regex function. This again is very simple. You have a pattern. Now the pattern is very simple. You just have a hyphen and then you have a string. So within the can function I'll add a regex and inside regex. What is the first part you have to add is the pattern. So the pattern would be hyphen. And then you have to add a string. So based on this string it will find the pattern. So how do you specify this specific part. You can just say data dot port. Alright. Similar to what we have used earlier. So this is one part. Alright. So this will either return int true or false. Now if true. So if it is true or if it is false, we have to handle both of these conditions. So you can use approach something similar to a conditional expression. If true what you want, you want to split it right. You want to split this specific data. So you are going to make use of split function. Let's look into the split function. Again. You have very similar as regex. You have a separator, you have a string. So within here the separator is hyphen and the string would be data dot port. Now note that this is the true value that will be associated with it. So it would be data dot port followed by the index. So as we are discussing, once it splits you have to reference to the index. So I'll say index of zero. And what happens if it is false. Then you can just say data dot port. All right. Now in a similar way the two port we can use same logic. Alright. So let's go ahead and try this out. Let's see if this is something that will work. So I'll do a Terraform plan. And this time let's see if you look into the output you have 4434438 88 84438443. So it is not as expected because it is just taking this first value for both the from port and two port. Now if you look into the logic in the two port, if terraform finds it to be true, then it should take the index of one. So within here you can just say one I'll save. This will clear the screen. We'll do a terraform plan this time. You see from port 80 to port 108 4438443 remains to be the same from port 4432. Port 445. All right. So I hope with this you understood this specific part. Now the next part that we are going to build is the security group and the ingress rule. So this you can directly copy from the documentation associated with VPC security group ingress rule. Let's add it over here. Let's just change it to use case zero three SG. And again, for the ingress rule, we have to make use of foreach so that it fetches the data from here and uses it as part of the security group. So I'll say foreach. You can look into the output. This is more of a map. So what you can do you can just build a map here for data in local dot processed underscore data. All right. We are referencing to this because this is where the actual splitting is happening. Now within here what do you want. First you have to verify if each of them has a unique key. If it does not have then you have to go ahead and add a index. So I'll say for index data in local process data what do you want. You want to build a map with a unique keys. All right. In fact you can also copy this and add it over here. And in the output you can just specify this part here so that you understand what exactly is happening before you add it as part of the resource. All right. Now if you do a Terraform plan we are getting an error. We made a small mistake so it should be local. Now if you do a Terraform plan this time when you compare this specific output from processed data and this specific output, one of the major difference here you see each map over here has a unique key. This is what we want because for each requires this. All right. So once you have this tested you can just copy it here. You can add it here and the Cidr block. Let's go ahead and say each dot value dot. Let's fetch the value Cidr underscore block similarly from port. Each dot value dot you can say from port here from port and two port have different values as we expect. So I'll copy this two port. I'll say two underscore port and protocol. I'll say each dot value dot. Let's verify the name is protocol only protocol. All right. Once this is done we are ready to test things out. Output value is something you can comment it out. Let's save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform init. In case if you do not have the provider plugins. Once this is done, you can do a Terraform plan. And finally you can do a Terraform apply with auto approve to ensure that everything is working. Once everything is created, just also verify from the AWS console if the rules are created as expected. So from the AWS console, let's go back to the security groups. All right. You have a use case zero three SG Within your. In the inbound rules, you should see three inbound rules one from 80 to 100 for four, three, two four, four five and 8443. Once everything is tested, make sure to go ahead and run the Terraform. Destroy auto approve so that the resources are removed. Great. So I hope with this you understood that based on the data that you have as part of the CSV file, you can modify it based on your requirement using various set of Terraform functions. Now, you do not always have to modify the CSV file. CSV file can remain to be the same. You can build your own custom map, similar to the process data that we had added as part of locals, and then in that you can go ahead and tinker along with the data based on your requirements and how the end resource type using forEach can use it. All right. So that's an overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.