Hadrian. And welcome to the exercise number four. Today again, we are going to look into how we can create the resources based on the data of external files. And for today's video, we are going to look into data, which is as part of the CSV file and some part of data which is part of the JSON file. So today's use case is also quite similar, where we have to go ahead and create inbound security group rules using the AWS VPC security Group Ingress Rule resource. Now as part of this you have a CSV file. And one difference that you see over here is that in the CSV file in the cider underscore block, this time directly, you do not have the cider block like 000 0 or 1 723100 16, and so on. This time you just have a name like app hyphen one, app hyphen two, and you have one more file, which is a JSON file. And in JSON file you have the cider block that are available associated with app hyphen one and app hyphen two. So what you need to do you have to create a security group ingress rule that looks into this data? And also this part gets computed by referencing to the data as part of the JSON file. Now again, similar to the earlier videos as well, you do not really need to modify any of the file, and all of the values needs to be fetched dynamically based on the content of this file. Now again, note that for this video, both of the file are present in the directory. However, it can happen that the JSON file might be somewhere in different place. It can be over internet, so you need to fetch it dynamically over the internet. Process the data and create the rules accordingly. All right. Now if you understand the overall format that we are going to discuss in today's video, irrespective of where the files are present, it will not really matter. Some small changes might be there in order to fetch the file, but apart from that, the major logic will remain to be the same. Now for today's video, as part of our KP Labs Terraform folder, we have two important files app dot JSON and xG hyphen 04. csv. The content of this file. I'll be adding it in our GitHub page for you to reference anyways, so let's open this folder with VS code now within here if you look into xG hyphen 04. csv, similar to the screenshot that we were referencing. This time the Cidr block is not directly added as part of the CSV file, and Cidr block is located somewhere else. In this case, we have a JSON file where the Cidr block is available here. So whatever logic that you create, it needs to fetch the data from here. It needs to fetch the data from here. It needs to compute this part with this Cidr block and this part with this specific Cidr block. And the ingress rules needs to be created accordingly. So what you can do, you can spend some time, try to solve it by yourself. If you are facing difficulty we can look into the solution. All right. So let's start with the solution. I will say use case zero 4.tf. Now within here, the first thing that we are going to do is locals. I'll say CSV data and we'll say JSON data. Now the first thing that we need to do is we have to decode the data. CSV is quite simple. We'll use the CSV decode function along with the file function, and we'll reference the SC 04. csv file. This is one. And for JSON data we have a JSON decode function. So I'll say JSON decode. Again everything will remain to be the same. So you can just copy it from here. You can add it here. The only difference here is the name of the file. It is app dot JSON. Once you have written this, always verify with the output values to ensure that you are getting the appropriate response. So first let's go ahead and do local dot CSV underscore data. I'll save this. Let's open this with terminal. You can do a terraform plan. We are getting the output as expected, and this time let's use the JSON data. And similarly we are getting the output as expected. So once you have done that the next part is you can go ahead and build the custom data by referencing to both of these files. So let's say I'll say processed data equals to. We are going to build a custom map here. So I'll say for data in local dot CSV underscore data because this is where the main rules are present now within here. Now in fact we'll use index just for simplicity within here what we want the primary important information that we require as part of building a security group is the direction, the protocol, the Cidr block and the port. All right. So I'll say direction, protocol, Cidr block and the port. So let's say from port. And two port. All right. Let's just align it so it looks decent. Now for direction. What you can do. You can say data dot direction. So that it fetches data from this. Then you have data dot protocol. Then you have data dot Cidr block. Data dot port and two port. Also it can be data dot port. In fact both of them are not required. You can just specify port. Also this is fine. All right now let's see what it is stating invalid for expression. Key expression is required. That is fine. So you can just specify index. All right. So this is a map that will be created. Now within here you can just specify the processed data. Let's just remove the earlier one. And let's just close this. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. Let's see how it looks like. So you have a map that is created with a unique key. This is fine. Now the main challenge here is related to the Cidr block because in the Cidr block you have app one and app two that are appearing, which we do not really want. So we need to find a way in which that can be replaced. Now, as part of this, one thing that you need to understand here on how you can fetch the data from JSON, this is quite important. For example, let's say within your I say local JSON underscore data. Now if I do a Terraform plan we are getting both of this. Now we do not really need both of this. Let's say that I need only this specific value. So how do I do that? You can try something like app hyphen one. Let's see if this works. So within here you are getting an error stating invalid reference. So what you can do you can just put it in quoted string. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. And this time you are only getting this specific output. All right. Now in a similar way we have to build a logic. Now again the logic is very simple. What you can do as part of this. So within here we had added app one right in local dot JSON underscore data app one in a similar way as part of the Cidr block. Instead of referencing data dot Cidr, underscore block what you can do you can add this part. All right. And this data dot Cidr underscore block because it will be referencing to app one and app two. So this part you can add it something like this. So once you have built this logic, now if you try to have a processed data here, let's see if it fetches this specific part. We'll clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. And you see it is working. This time the Cidr blocks are being successfully fetched. And now it is time to test the overall logic. So the best way to test it is to do a Terraform apply. So now you can go ahead and create the security group as well as the VPC security group. Ingress rule will keep it simple. The name I'll say use case zero for SG and this time this is what we need to reference within the security group here. So let's do one thing within here for each equals to local dot. Since this is returning a map you can just specify this local dot processed underscore data. And now within here each dot value is something that will be common. So let's just add it everywhere. The port will just specify port in two places. Protocol also will specify here. And the last part is the Cidr IPv4. It is associated with this. So let's specify this. All right I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan this time. Let's see if it works. So it is creating a security group. And two rules based on this Cidr block and this specific Cidr block. That's great. So now it's time to verify if everything is working. I'll do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Let's see. Everything is created. And then we'll also try to modify the JSON file and see if it fetches the value dynamically in the next apply. All right this is done. So now from the AWS console, you can go to the security groups. You will see this specific security group in the inbound rule. Over here. You see we have two inbound rule on 443 and 80. Great. So once you have built this logic let's also try to modify it a little. So in one 7216 let's just call it as one 7218. All right I'll save this. Now if things are done correctly in the next Terraform plan, it should detect a change and it will ask for modification as expected. Here you see it is trying to modify this. So this is working. Let's just revert the change over here. So this is the part one of this video. Let's look into the part two where there is a small change. Now in the overall solution. The solution was applied using this specific one because app hyphen one. App hyphen two was common between the CSV file and the JSON file. And that is the reason why we were directly able to reference it. Now what happens if the naming convention does not match? So here instead of app hyphen one, you have app and maybe app hyphen two you have database. What happens in such cases? Let's also address this. So just for simplicity let's also destroy all of the resource that were created. And just for simplicity what I'm going to do this specific file, I'll just save it. I'll just call it as dot back and I'll say use case zero for part 2.tf. Alright. And we are going to just copy this code in the part two over here. Along with that the app dot JSON. Also let's just change it to app hyphen two dot JSON. And we'll copy the contents to app hyphen two dot JSON. And let's change the name I'll say app and I'll say database. All right, just for reference over here, I'll save this. And one small change you'll have to do. You'll have to just change it to app hyphen two dot JSON. Now in such case this reference that we have built will no longer work. Let's also try it out. I'll clear the screen. Now. When you do a Terraform plan, you see this specific reference that we have built as part of the Cidr block is no longer working. So in such cases, what you can do is you can create a local mapping between the name that is part of the JSON file and the name that is present over here. So within here let's just call it as name hyphen mapping. And within here let's say app hyphen one equals to and app hyphen two equals. Now again there can be multiple types of solutions that can be built. We are looking into a simple approach that can solve this specific use case over here. So this can be the name that is part of the CSV file. And on the right hand side will be the value associated with the JSON file. So here let's call it as app. And here let's call it as database. So let's just fix this specific part. So once this mapping is done the next part that you need to do is within here what you can do. You can enclose it in say local dot name underscore mapping. And then inside it will be this part. Alright let's save this. Let's see if this works. And you see it is working this time. So now that we know that it is working, let's look into what exactly this part is doing because it can be a little confusing. Alright, so again it is easy provided you understand it. So let's look into it. So first we have local dot JSON underscore data. Now at this stage we know that this is referencing to this part. So the value that is part of app hyphen two dot JSON will be referenced. This is one part. Now inside this you have local dot name underscore mapping. And in local dot name underscore mapping you are referencing to this part. So now what will happen is let's look into this. All right. Let's look into this. Now what this is doing is this is being replaced by let's copy this. This has been replaced by something like app hyphen one. All right I hope you understand because this part will be app hyphen one in the first iteration. So now once you have this specific part. What will happen. Let's see. So let's copy this in the output values. Just for an example I'll just comment out the other part. All right. We are just focusing on this. Now let's do a Terraform plan. This time. You see it is resulting in app. And what is the value associated with app. It is 1070 700 16. All right. So this is how the mapping really works. So this is the first iteration. In the second iteration again you have this part which is remaining to be common. Then this specific part. All right local. Let's copy this then what will happen. This specific part local dot name underscore mapping and this data Cidr block. As part of second iteration it will be app hyphen two. So this part will look something like app hyphen two. Now, when you have this specific operation, what will this result in? This will result in the value which is database. All right. So now it will look something like this database. So when you do terraform plan this time we are getting error. Why. Because we have directly added a compute value. It should be app hyphen two. All right. And when you do a Terraform plan this time we will get a database. So finally this part over here will be computed entirely. So the final part of the second iteration would look something like database. All right. And when you add this in output value you see we get one 7216. And when you look into one 7216 it is associated with database. So I hope with this at a high level Overview. You understood on how the computation is happening as part of this specific block. Again, initially it might be a little confusing, but once you document it step by step on what exactly is happening, it will become much more simpler here. So just for verification, what we are going to do, we are going to ensure that everything is working. Sometimes it will work here, but it does not really create a security group which we do not want. So I'll go ahead and I'll do a Terraform apply auto approve. We have to ensure that the security group gets successfully created. And here it does. Once you verified it you can just do a Terraform destroy with auto approve to ensure that the entire resource infrastructure is removed. Great. So I hope with this you understood the solution associated with exercise number four. And with this we will conclude today's video.