Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about Terraform settings. Now at this stage we already know the basics about the provider block and how it allows us to specify certain level of configuration, like in which region you want to create the resource, some credentials, and so on. Now, although this sets the basic tune related to the resource and where it will be created, there are more level of customizations that are required in Terraform project. And these level of customizations are limited in the provider block. So this is where the Terraform settings comes into picture. Now, one of the very common use cases where these settings are used extensively is when you have version requirements as part of the code. So for example, let's say you have created a sample Terraform code. Now this Terraform code is very specific. It will not work with all of the versions of Terraform. It will not work with all of the provider versions and so on. So your code might require a very specific set of version, both of Terraform and provider plugins, so this can be understood with this specific requirement. Where you see. For this code to run, you need to have Terraform version of 1.8 and AWS provider version must be 5.56. Only when both of these criteria meet will your code run. So this is the hypothetical scenario if you discuss about the provider block. So when you just specify provider of AWS what it will do, it will go ahead and download the latest version of the provider plugins. And there is also no approach of restricting the provider resource to a specific Terraform version. So in order to overcome that, you make use of Terraform settings at a high level. Overview. This specific settings are used to configure the project specific Terraform behavior, like the one that we were discussing, where you require a minimum Terraform version, maybe to apply your specific configurations. Now, this specific Terraform settings are gathered together in the Terraform block. So if you see this is the Terraform block. And within here you can have project specific settings like minimum version of Terraform that needs to be used, the providers that are required, the version of providers and so on. So let's go ahead and explore this from practical point of view as well, where for today's practical I have a file called as tf hyphen settings.tf. Again, the base file is available in our GitHub page. Now, as we know that the Terraform settings can be added as part of the Terraform block over here. So currently this block is empty. However, if you'd like, you can go ahead and add multiple set of configurations as part of this block to customize things. Now at this stage you see I just have a simple TF settings file here. No other files are present now from the CLI. Whenever I do a terraform init what it will do it will download the latest version of the provider plugins. In this case, you can see that it has downloaded 5.57, which is the latest as far as today's video is concerned. Now how can we determine whether this is the latest one? Let's also look into it. Now from the Terraform registry associated with the provider of AWS. You see as of now the latest version is 5.57.0. In your case, it can happen that you have the higher version whenever you are watching the video. But at this stage we are just understanding things from conceptual point of view. Now let's imagine that this specific code that we have specified, it works only with a very specific version of Terraform and a very specific version of the provider plugins. So in such case as we know Terraform block can be used. So let's take a step further and understand what are the configurations that we'll have to add as part of this block to achieve this use case. The first use case is where you have to specify the required Terraform version. Now this can be achieved by adding the required underscore version block as part of your Terraform block here. So it would look something similar to this. So you say required underscore version and then equal to whatever version that you would like. Let's also try it out. Now from the CLI you can go ahead and verify the version that you have. In my case it is 1.9.1. In your case, if you're watching the video a little late, it might be a higher version. And it is also showing us the provider version which is 5.57.0. So now within this block, let's say I specify required version is equal to 1.8. All right. Now I am not going to save this. In fact let's just remove this I'll save this block here. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan. Let's verify if our code is working in the first place to avoid any sort of confusion. All right. Alright, so at this stage we are getting the output. So that means things looks good. Now let's go ahead and add the required version block of 1.8. At this stage we already know that our Terraform version is not 1.8, it is 1.9.1. Now if I do a Terraform plan immediately here you see we got an error of unsupported Terraform core version. And here you can also see that it is expecting the version of 1.8. As soon as you add 1.8, things will work. So now I'll change it to 1.9.1, which is my current Terraform version. Again, based on the version that you have, make sure you use that, otherwise it will not work. So now I'll do a Terraform plan once again. And you see things are working well. All right. So I hope with this you understood the first and the important part where the Terraform block is used for the second very important use case is where terraform blocks are extensively used is to specify the provider related requirements. So for here you have to make use of the required providers block. So you can easily understand this from the screenshot where under the Terraform block you have the required providers. And then you can specify the version constraints associated with the provider. For example, AWS provider is used, but of a specific version which is 5.56, not 5.57, not 6.0 5.56. So this is also something that you can add. Let's go ahead and try this out. Now generally if you go to the Terraform settings documentation you'll get all the details. Again we don't need to remember. So this is what we were discussing the required providers block. So let's go ahead and copy this I'll add it here. Let's go ahead and just have a proper indentation. So within the version constraints here it is greater than or equal to 2.70.0. So if you have 2.6.0, it will not work. So any version which is greater than equal to this. So this is where we'll specify say 5.6.0. All right. A very specific version. We have not added greater than or equal to and so on. We require only this specific version. Generally you can also verify this. So for any providers that you are referring to you can go to the source code. Now within here in the releases there are so many releases you can just verify. All right. This is 5.57. There are so many of them that are available. So since the latest release is 5.57 this is something that we do not want. Let's switch to say a little older release of say 5.54.1. It can be anything 5.54.1. So this is the release where our code is working is what we are considering as part of the scenario. I'll save the change now from the CLI. If I do a Terraform plan immediately, we got an error of inconsistent dependency log file, primarily because in the log file we have the version of 5.50 7.0, which is the latest one. So it is also showing you the command. So in this case let's go ahead and run the command here. So now what will happen is 5.54.1 provider plugins will be downloaded for you. All right. You see it is installing 5.54.1. That's great. And now when you do a Terraform plan what will happen is the provider plugin that will be used will always be 5.54.1, so that you can ensure that your code works perfectly well. All right. So depending upon the requirements you can go ahead and add multiple set of settings as part of your Terraform block to tune your project accordingly. Now, one thing that we have to keep a note of is that we just discussed two important use cases as part of the Terraform block, but it is not just limited to these two. There are a wide variety of other settings that you can add as part of your Terraform block. So if this is your Terraform block, there are a lot of things that you can do. So the Terraform version, the provider version constraints that we were discussing. You can also have the back end configuration. Again this is a very important one. You can have experimental features that you can enable it. Again this is used in many of the cases when you are testing things and others as well. Now generally in the documentation associated with the settings, you will be able to see what are the other options and how you can do that. For example this is experimental language features. So again this is the Terraform block. This is how you can enable it. Again you can go ahead and read things in detail. You can also pass metadata to providers. Again this has to be added as part of the Terraform block and so on. Great. So that's a very high level overview about the importance of the Terraform block and some of the important settings that you can add as part of this. So with this we'll conclude today's video.