Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we will be discussing about Terraform backend. So at a high level overview backend primarily determines where the Terraform stores its state file. Now we already know that by default, Terraform implicitly uses a backend called as local to store the state as a local file on a disk. So whenever you go ahead and do a terraform, apply in the same folder where your configurations are, you will see that there is also a terraform.tf state file that is also generated. So this is referred to as a local backend. Now generally for small projects where you are working individually, this seems to be fine. However, in a larger organization this is not the best of the approaches. So let's look into some of the challenges that you will face specifically when you are using local backend. So nowadays you will see that whenever you are working with Terraform in an organization, there is always a team collaboration that takes place. Someone takes care of one part of the code. Someone takes care of the second part of the code, and together your entire infrastructure is created. Now, if you're storing the state file in your local laptop, then that will not really allow collaboration. Or let's say that you are storing the state file in a git repository. That will also create a lot of issues in the overall state file. So this is not the approach specifically when a collaboration really takes place. So what your ideal approach should be in the organization is that all of your Terraform file will be stored as part of the central git repository. So whatever Terraform code that you have, you have to commit it to the central git repository and the terraform.tf state file. Instead of storing it locally you will commit it to a central backend. So you see you have a central git repository for your Terraform code, and you have a central backend for your state file. So now what happens is the project collaborators, Anyone who wants to commit or apply or destroy some resources, he can easily not only get your Terraform code from the central git repo, but also the Terraform tf state file from the central backend. Now, when we discuss about central backend, there are a lot of backend that are available in Terraform. Some of the popular ones includes S3. This is also quite extensively used in organizations specifically based on AWS. You have console, you have Kubernetes, HTTP, etcd and so many others. So Terraform supports multiple backends that allows remote service related operations. Now do note that when you have such backends, let's say you have a backend of S3. The terraform.tf state file will always stay in S3. So whenever you destroy or when you create a new resource through Terraform, your Terraform will go ahead and update the terraform.tf state file that is stored in the central backend. So this is the high level architecture. Let's go ahead and look into it. Now within the Terraform documentation you will basically see the list of available backends over here. As we are discussing there are multiple backends like you have Artifactory console etcd, Kubernetes, the one that we were discussing, S3 and so on. And depending upon the backend that you need, each would require its own set of configuration. So before we proceed, let's have a quick demo. So for today's demo I have a resource of type AWS AP. All it does is it creates a public IP address in AWS. And along with that I also have a file called as backend.tf where I have configured the S3 backend here. So let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply and see what is the outcome of it. So from the CLI let's quickly do a Terraform apply over here with auto approve. Note that this is just a demo. We will be discussing about the implementation part in the upcoming video. All right. So our elastic IP is created. Now when you look into the folder associated with remote backend over here, you will see that there is no terraform.tf state file. That is available primarily because we have configured this to store the state file in a S3 backend. So if you look into our S3 bucket in AWS, I have one file called as Terraform.tf state file. And basically this is the file where the remote state is stored. So if you want to really confirm if this is really the file, let's quickly look into it. So temporarily I will download this file in my local laptop. And let's open this up quickly. Let's go a bit down. And here you see it is basically giving you the IP address that was created. So this was the public IP address that was created through our IP resource. And the same can be confirmed if you look into the type it is AWS underscore IP. Similar to what? Declaration of resource we had made. Great. So I hope with this you understood at a high level overview about the importance of the central backend and how Terraform, if configured with a central backend, can store the state file in a remote location and this allows better project collaboration. Now, before we conclude, let's look into the important note. First one is that accessing state in a remote service generally requires some kind of access credentials. For example, let's say you have a S3 bucket and a Terraform user wants to perform a, let's say, apply or destroy operation so that Terraform user. Since the TF state file is located in the S3 bucket, he needs to have a access secret key through which he can connect to the S3 bucket. Without credentials, he will not be able to perform the operations. So this issue of authentication and authorization does not really lie in a local state, because the state is stored locally in your laptop and you do not really have to worry about it. But for the remote state, this is something that you will have to take care of it. Now, the second important point is related to the state file locking. Now again, whichever backend that you choose in Terraform, you have to ensure that the backend supports locking of the state file. Otherwise, if multiple users are working on a state file at a instant of time, then that can lead to conflicts and inconsistency. So if one user is working on a state file, that state file will be locked for everyone unless and until he has completed his operation. So we will be discussing about the second pointer in great detail at a later point of view. But at this stage, we are just looking into the concept of the advantages of storing the state file in the remote backend. So with this we will conclude today's video.