Hi everyone, and welcome back. So in today's video we'll go ahead and implement a central backend. And we'll look into how Terraform will go ahead and store its state file into the central backend that we select. Now as we are discussing that there are multiple types of backends that are available, and depending upon your architecture, you can use one among them. Each one has its own set of benefits. Some of them also has some of the advantages. So it is better to go ahead and read the documentation about the backend that you intend to select. So for today's video, since we have been creating basic resources in AWS, we will be using a backend of S3. Now when you open up a backend, one of the great things is that there is an example configuration. So this is very helpful. And it also shows you what are the permissions and other things that you need and all of its necessary configurations here. So what we'll be doing, we'll be using this and we'll look into how things would work. So let's do one thing. First thing since we are going to use the S3 backend is we need to have a S3 bucket where the data can be stored. So from the AWS, let's go ahead and quickly open up the S3 service. And within here let's go ahead and quickly create a new bucket. Let's just call it as KP Labs Terraform backend. Now make sure that you give a different name because the bucket names are global. Once this is done, you can go ahead and create a bucket. Great. So once this bucket is created here you can also create subfolders. So let's say I create a subfolder of network. So this subfolder will have all the TF state file related to network. You can also create a subfolder of say security. So in case security team is working, the security team's resources specifically the TF state file will be stored in this specific folder. So in case there are multiple different teams working in an overall collaboration, this type of architecture really helps. So for today's demo we have a directory called as remote hyphen back end. And this directory has only two files. One is the IPF. Second is the providers.tf. We already know what exactly these can do. So now let's go ahead and create one more file. I'll call it as backend.tf. And within here let's go ahead and copy this example configuration. Now there are three important things that needs to be specified. First one is the bucket. Second one is the key and third one is the region. So the bucket. Let's just replace this with a bucket name which is KP labs terraform bucket. Second one is the key. This is basically the path where the TF state file will be stored. So I'll just call it as network. And you can also specify the name which is terraform.tf state. All right. And the region is basically the region where you have created your S3 bucket. So since you can create a bucket in multiple regions, you'll have to select in which region you have created it. If you want to quickly find it out, you can go to properties and it will basically show you in which region it has created. So the region matches over here. Now the next important thing is the authentication credentials. As we are discussing that once your Terraform is configured with a back end of TF, it will be going ahead and storing the state file into a central S3 bucket. So you need a set of access and secret keys, which has the permission over a S3 bucket first. And it also allows certain operations, like put operations to store the state file and get operations to fetch the state file. Now, if you look into this specific configuration here, let's go a bit down within here you can store the access and secret key within the configuration itself. This is something that is supported. However, you can also make a better choice by storing it as part of the AWS config. So basically what you will have to do is you will have to download the aws cli and once you have downloaded the aws cli, you will have to run the AWS configure command. All right. And within here you will have to add a access key. Press enter. After you have added it you will have to add a secret key here. Press enter and you can just use the default region. Press enter and that's about it. So this is how you can configure the access secret keys within your workstation. So let's also quickly revise on how you can install the aws CLI. Again depending upon the operating system you can open up one among them. And within windows here you see it basically has this MSI. So all you have to do is you will have to download this MSI. Double click on it and it will get installed. All right. So you don't really have to run this alternate command. Only one setup is required. In case if you are working with Linux system it is very straightforward. Only three commands once it is installed. You can also quickly verify with the S3 command let's say KP labs Terraform bucket. All right so we got an error. Let me quickly verify the name. All right. A small typo here. Let's specify back end. And as you see, there are two folders that are being listed. In case if you have a bucket in a different region, you'll have to explicitly specify the region name. Let's say AP South one, which stands for Mumbai. All right. This is also something to note. So generally after you have configured the AWS CLI and had run the AWS configure command and had pasted the access and secret key, it basically creates two files called as config and credentials. Credential is the file where your access and secret keys are basically stored. And the same is specified over here is you can either specify the access and secret key, or even if your access and secret key are part of the AWS credentials file that is automatically generated when you run the AWS configure command, that is also fine. Then you do not really need to specify this in the code. So this is how our code will really look like at a high level overview. So from a remote backend directory, let's go ahead and quickly do a terraform init. So it states that no such bucket. We might have made the same mistake which is it should be KP labs terraform bag. Great. Let's clear the screen and let's do a terraform init once more. Great. So this has been successfully initialized. And what we'll do we'll simply do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Great. So our IP resource has been created. Now if you'll quickly look into the remote backend folder here you'll see that you do not really have a terraform.tf state file that is available. So now if you quickly go to S3 bucket within here, if you'll go to the network, you'll see a terraform.tf state file has been created for you. Great. So this is a high level overview about the implementation part associated with S3 backend with Terraform.