Everyone and welcome back. Now in today's video, we will be discussing about one of the important topics in Terraform, not only from a production point of view, but also from an exam point of view. And the topic for today is state locking. Or you can also refer to it as a state file locking. Now, one important thing that you need to note is that whenever you are performing a write operation, Terraform would lock the state file. So this is generally considered to be very important. Otherwise in case let's say that you have an ongoing Terraform apply operation. And if others are also trying to perform a write operation on the state file, then it can corrupt your state file. So generally if you look into the screenshot, this is a Terraform plan. And basically you are getting an error stating error acquiring the state lock. So that basically means that someone else is already performing some operation. And due to this reason, when you do a Terraform plan, you are basically getting an error over here. So this is what is referred to as a state locking or a state file locking. So let's look into the basic working on what exactly this feature intends to prevent. Now let's say that you have a project collaboration where users are sitting across different location, but they are working on a same project in Terraform. So let's say that a user performs a Terraform apply operation, and there is another user on the same project and he is doing a terraform destroy operation, and both are associated with the same state file. So in case if there are multiple write operations that are happening on a state file, then this type of scenario will go ahead and it can corrupt your state file altogether. So this is something that you do not really want. So in order to overcome this, terraform has a feature of state file locking where if one of the user, as we are discussing, has acquired a lock, then the second user, when he tries to perform the write operation, Terraform will basically give an error stating that the state is locked. Great. So I hope with this you understood the basic working. So let's go ahead and try it out. So for today's test purpose I have a simple new directory of temp. And within here let's quickly create a new file of sleep.tf. And I'll basically paste the simple code. So this is a resource block of time underscore sleep. So basically this will sleep for 300 seconds. All right at a high level overview. So let's go ahead and open up our CLI. And from one of the windows I'll go ahead and do a Terraform init. So this is installing the HashiCorp time over here. Once this is done you can quickly do a Terraform apply followed by auto approve. So now you see it is basically going ahead and sleeping for 300 seconds which is five minutes. Now from a second terminal window. Let's go ahead and do a terraform plan again. We are doing it in the same directory. And immediately here you see you got an error stating that other acquiring state locks primarily because there is already one more CLI instance which is performing a operation on top of this. Now, one of the question that comes is how exactly does the Terraform know that there is another process that is acquired the state lock. So let's look into it. Now if you look into this temp directory you have a sleep.tf. This is something that we have created. You have a terraform state and you have one more file called terraform.tf state.lock.info. So through this specific file, Terraform will know that there is an ongoing operation that is happening on the state file. So if you'd like to see let's expand this specific folder. And this is the file that we are discussing about. Now in this file you will see that there is also a lock ID over here. This is one of the important things we'll be discussing what exactly this is all about. But this ID is important. Along with that it is also giving various other information related to the user who is performing the operation, basically. And it also has the creation date as well as the path where the lock has applied to, which is the terraform.tf state file. So from the name of the file itself, we can quickly identify and also note that once the lock operation has completed. So once that terraform apply on this sleep has completed after 300 seconds, this log file will automatically be removed. And once this log file is removed, then another user can go ahead and initiate a write operation perfectly. Well. Great. So I hope with this you understood the basics of state file locking. Now a few important things that we need to note. First one is that the state locking happens automatically on all the operations that could write state. You won't see any message that this is happening, but it happens behind the scenes, as we have seen on how a new file associated with the lock ID and other information is automatically created. Second important point is that if a state locking. Fails, Terraform will not continue. This is second important point. And third very important point is that not all the backend support state locking. So the documentation for each backend includes details on whether it supports locking or not. So it is important that in case if you are using a specific backend and you have a project collaboration in place, make sure that your backend supports state locking feature. Now as we are using a basic local backend, local backend does support state locking in Terraform. Now if you look into the CLI over here, this specific operation is still in the creation stage. So around four minutes nine seconds has elapsed and after 300 seconds which is five minutes, this specific operation will complete. Now the last pointer for today's video is associated with force unlocking the state. Many times you will see that although someone else is not performing any active right operation on Terraform. Still, there is a state lock that is applied. So in such cases you can also make use of a force unlock command. So Terraform has a force unlock command to manually unlock the state if the unlocking process has failed. Now do note that you have to use this command very cautiously, because if you unlock the state when someone else is holding the lock, it could also cause multiple writers. So the third point is important which states force unlock should only be used to unlock your own lock in the situation where automatic unlocking has failed. So now at this stage you will see that our CLI is completed and if you go to the temp directory, you see automatically the file which contained the lock ID. That file is now deleted. So this means that you can go ahead and perform another Terraform write related operation and you will not get a lock specific error. Great. So this is the high level overview of state locking. And with this we will conclude today's video.