Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we will be discussing about state locking with S3 backend. Now one important thing that we need to note is that by default, when we just use the S3 backend for storing the terraform.tf state file, it does not really support the state locking functionality. So in order to achieve a state locking functionality, you need to make use of an additional resource in AWS, which is the DynamoDB table over here. So the architecture looks something similar to this, where the Terraform.tf state file will be stored in an S3 bucket, and the state lock information we have already seen on how a file is created with various details like the lock ID and other things. All of those things will be stored as part of the DynamoDB table. So generally in a production environment, if you are going to make use of a S3 backend, you have to make use of both of these services. Now when we discuss about S3 backend as a whole, it does support the integration of the DynamoDB. So here you see it does support the integration of DynamoDB. So you can add a DynamoDB table along with this example configuration. Now, before we go ahead and look into it, let's have a quick demo to understand what will happen if a DynamoDB table is not really specified. So currently in my temp folder, I have a very simple configuration where we are making use of a resource of time sleep that sleeps for 300 seconds. And along with that, this time we are storing the data in a new TF state file called as tmp.tf state file under the network folder of this specific S3 bucket. So let's do one thing instead of 300 seconds, let's just change to one 50s. This seems to be quite good enough. Let's save the changes and from the temp directory, let's quickly do a terraform init so that our back end can get initialized. And let's do a terraform apply with auto approve. All right. So basically the overall waiting period has started. So till the time it continues from one more CLI terminal in the same folder if we will quickly do a Terraform plan operation. This time it will not really give us any error related to state file locking. You see, it is working perfectly well. Great. So meanwhile, our time sleep has completed. And from the S3 bucket this time you will see that tmp.tf state file has appeared over here. Great. So this is the basic scenario where we have not used the S3 with DynamoDB table. So this time let's go ahead and also make use of a DynamoDB table. Now in order to do that, let's open up the DynamoDB service. And basically you can also get the information from the documentation. So you have a section of DynamoDB state locking over here. So the only thing that you will have to specify is the DynamoDB underscore table. So basically within here you will have to specify DynamoDB underscore table and just specify the name of the table. So within the DynamoDB you can go ahead and quickly create a new table. Let's just call it as Terraform state locking. And one more thing. It is mentioned in the documentation is that the table must have a partition key named lock ID with the type of string. So in the partition key you will have to specify lock ID. Make sure to use the exact same convention, which is a lock ID with the id of string. All right once. Then go ahead and create a table and just copy the table name. And within your code you can specify the name of the table here. Let's save it. Now if you refresh the DynamoDB you see the status is now active. And along with this, let's just change the state file. Let's just call it as demo.tf state file. All right. We'll save this. Now from the CLI you can quickly do a Terraform init. So basically it has given an error stating that the backend configuration has changed. And you can either migrate your state file or you can just store the current configuration with no changes using Terraform init reconfigure. So you can just do a terraform init, let's say reconfigure. Great. Now let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve. So this time you will see you got a message stating acquiring state lock. This may take few minutes. So now the time sleep has started. So from a different CLI window let's do a Terraform plan. And immediately here you see it basically states error acquiring the state lock. So basically within the DynamoDB table over here let's do a explore table items. You will see that there is one lock ID over here. Let's open this up. There is one lock ID associated with demo.tf state. So here you have the lock ID. So this is the lock ID it also basically gives you various information related to who has acquired it, which is silver desktop and other details associated with it. And the same thing you are seeing over here, which is basically the lock ID, the path where the lock ID is associated with, what is the operation operation type is apply and who has acquired it. You have the name as well as the version and the time stamp here. So going back to our CLI here, you see after the overall creation process has completed, it is stating releasing the state lock. And now in the DynamoDB, if you click on Explore Table items here, you basically see an error stating that the requested item cannot be found, so this will be deleted if I just refresh it once more. You see, overall the data has been removed, so it has been changed to die. So if I quickly open this up, all of the data that we had is now removed. So the only thing in lock ID that you have is the MD5 and its associated digest here. Great. So before we conclude let me also change the name of this specific file. Otherwise it would be confusing in the git repository when I commit it. So let's just call it as S3 state lock so that from your side, if you are trying to find this file, it will be easier. Great. So I hope with this you understood the overall functionality of state file locking in the S3 backend using the DynamoDB table. And with this we will conclude today's video.