Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the Terraform State management. Now one important part to remember is that as your usage in Terraform becomes much more advanced, there are some use cases where you may need to modify the Terraform state file, and there are many use cases where this is required. Now, in many cases, it has been observed that when an individual modifies the terraform state file, sometimes mistake happens and if the mistake is severe, then your terraform state will become corrupted. So it is very important to not modify the state file manually. All right. This is a very important part. One of the most important part as part of your Terraform project is the state file. Now, when we say that it is not recommended to modify the state file manually, the question that comes is what is the other approach? That is the first question. The second important question is for what use cases do we need to modify the state file in the first case, because in most of the videos that we have been learning, we never modified the state file directly. We never needed to modify the state file directly. So these are the two important questions. Let's explore each one of them. Now HashiCorp has given as an alternative where we can run the Terraform state set of commands for advanced state management. Now these set of commands are quite extensive. So these are the sub commands that are available as part of the Terraform state. For example terraform state list, terraform state MV Terraform state pull, and so on. Each command has its own set of advantages, and we will be studying each one of them in detail. Now, the first important sub command under the Terraform state is the list. So the Terraform state list command is used to list the resources that are part of the Terraform state. So if you look into the screenshot here you have the Terraform state list. And it will show you all of the resources that are currently part of the Terraform state. So from here, you can quickly identify that all of these resources are created and managed through Terraform. So this command is useful if you want to quickly view all the resources that are managed by Terraform. Sometimes project can have hundreds of resources. So instead of directly looking into the configuration file and so on, you can look into the state list command to quickly identify the resources that are managed. Let's also look into it practically. Now for today's video I have a file of state management tf what exactly this file does? It creates a new IAM user in AWS. It creates a new security group in AWS, which is the firewall, and the state here is stored in a back end of S3. So here we are not storing the state locally, we are storing it in a S3 bucket. And this is the name of S3 bucket. Now since this is the name of S3 bucket in my case, and the S3 bucket names are unique across all of the AWS accounts, you have to ensure that you have a different S3 bucket name here. All right. Now, in fact, let me also quickly show you so that we do not have any confusion. So you can go to S3. Now I have so many buckets that are available, you can simply create a new bucket with whatever name you would like. Let's say KP labs sample bucket demo 001. And you can go ahead and create this bucket and whatever bucket that is created, the name of the bucket. You can add it over here to progress. All right. So with this let's go ahead and try a Terraform apply. Now from my CLI in case if you have already terraform in it that is fine. Otherwise you can do a terraform in it and you can directly go with the terraform. Apply with auto approve. Great. So at this stage both of these resources are created. And if you look into the folder of KP Labs Terraform, you see that there are no TF state file that are present. In fact, you can also refresh this and you can verify that no TF state file is present locally. So let's go ahead and quickly copy the bucket name. And from S3 you can just copy the bucket name. Let's open this. And within here you see that we have the demo.tf state file that is present here. So going back to the PPT, the first subcommand here is the Terraform state list. At this stage, we already know that there are two resources that have been created and managed through Terraform. In real world environment this can also be hundreds of resources. So one of the quick ways to go ahead and see what are the resources that are managed through Terraform, you can just say Terraform state list and it will show you two resources. One is AWS IAM user with a local name of dev. So you can see AWS IAM user with a local name of dev. Second is AWS security Group with a local name of prod, AWS security Group with a local name of prod. So this is the first subcommand of terraform state. The second one is the show. So the Terraform state show command is used to show the attribute of a single resource as part of the state. So let's say that you have created a new AWS user through Terraform. So if you want to see various attributes associated with that user, you can run the state show command. Now in fact, all of these attributes, you can also open the TF state file and look into the attributes. But again as we are discussing, it has been observed that whenever someone opens a TF state file by mistake, they might modify it unknowingly. In such case, state can become corrupted and it is a big risk. So as much as possible, avoid touching the TF state file directly. There are commands that are available that Terraform has provided. We can make use of that. So let's go ahead and explore the second command. I'll say Terraform state show. And then you have to provide the resource address. Let's try the security group. Dot prod. So now all the attributes associated with the resource will be displayed here. So what are the attributes you have the Arn. You have the description. You have the security group ID. So all of the attributes like security group ID etc. are not available here. One of the way that many of the users use to fetch important things like security group ID is by manually going to the EC2 console. Let me in fact show you this. So what they'll do, they'll go to the AWS console. They'll go to the security group. They'll open the security group to find the ID. So this is the ID. So instead of that you have a easier way using the state show command. You also have the owner ID, you have the VPC ID where the security group is created, and so on. So this is a useful command overall. The third important command is the Terraform state pool. And it is used to pull the state from a remote backend and output it to stdout. Now, as we are discussing, most of the organization will not use the terraform.tf state file locally. They will have some kind of a remote backend. In our case, the remote backend that was used is S3. So if you want to go ahead and pull the TF state file from a remote backend, there are multiple approaches. Again, what someone might do is they'll go to the S3 console. Let me show you from the S3 console. They'll open the bucket with the TF state file is stored. And now this is the TF state file. So what they'll do they'll go ahead and download it as soon as it's downloaded you can open this. And this is the TF state file. Now let's say that this file has been modified by some other team member. So what you'll have to do again you'll have to log in to AWS, go to S3, download the file and so on. This is not recommended. So now what you can do. You can simply do a Terraform state pull and it will pull the TF state file for you. So here you see the entire TF state file has been pulled by this command. The next important command is the Terraform state, RM, and it is used to remove an item from the state file. So many a times what happens is some resources have been modified manually, and they have been modified manually so many times that now it is difficult to integrate it as part of your Terraform code. So what you can do, you can simply remove that resource that was earlier managed by Terraform, but has been modified a lot, and you can remove it as part of your state file so that Terraform does not modify it, and it also does not destroy it. Let's also explore this now. In order to better demonstrate this specific use case, we'll go ahead and will create a new inbound rule as part of our firewall. So for example, for this security group there are no rules both inbound and outbound. So I'll just go ahead and will create a new rule here. Let me just change this to prod. All right. So we'll just leave everything as default. Similar to that, we'll go ahead and add one more rule for the port of 22 here. And I'll save this. Along with that, make sure that you have a different local name here. Now from the CLI we'll go ahead and we'll do a Terraform plan so that new two inbound rules get created. All right. So there are two rules. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve. Now from the AWS console if you go to the security groups once again you open up the Terraform firewall. You will see that there are two security group rules that are created here. Now let's assume let's modify this rule. So instead of ten 008 we'll just open this up for everyone. We'll just also add some description. And I'll click on Save Rules. Now from the CLI if I do a Terraform plan. Let's see what changes this Terraform show. As expected, there are two changes that it is showing. So it is trying to remove the 000 rule and add the ten 000/8 Cidr block. Once again that is part of the configuration. Now this is some small change, but a resource in a real world environment. It can happen that someone has modified 20 times, 30 times and so on. So in such case, either you reconcile your Terraform configuration and terraform state file, or you simply say that this resource has been modified too many times and it is difficult to include and manage it via Terraform. So now what you want. You do not want that resource to be destroyed. So let's say that this resource has been modified too many times, and now you simply do not want to manage the security group through Terraform. So in such case, what would happen if you remove these lines. Let's see. Let's clear the screen. I do a Terraform plan. So now what Terraform will try to do. Terraform will go ahead and it will try to destroy. Similarly if you try to remove the entire security group you don't want to manage it through Terraform. Again. If you do a Terraform plan what Terraform will do. It will simply go ahead and try to destroy and remove the security group in AWS. So this is something that you do not want what you want. Security group should be present in AWS is just that from now onwards you do not want to manage it via Terraform, so you want it to be removed from the configuration file. But you do not want Terraform to destroy it as well. So in such case, the Terraform state RM command proves to be very useful. So let's bring back the resource block here. Now similar to what we were discussing the overall command is much more simpler. Terraform state. Mm. Followed by the exact resource address. So for this, let me in fact open up one more tab. I'll go to the same folder and I'll clear the screen. So from the first tab here I'll go ahead and do a Terraform state pull to pull the latest state. Now if you see as part of the state you have the ingress rule. You also have the second ingress rule and you have the security group. So now you can say terraform state RM followed by the AWS security group dot prod. So let's do that AWS security Group dot prod. Now as soon as you do that you see it states removed this specific resource. Similarly we'll run the same command for the VPC ingress security group rule dot example. And example two. All right. Now if you go ahead and do a Terraform plan, you see it is trying to create these three resources because these resources are removed as part of the state. So it does not really know whether the resources are present or not. It considers it to be a new resource. So once you do that, it is now safe to remove these lines from the TF file. And after removing that lines, if you do a Terraform plan, once again you see it states no changes and the resource has been removed from the terraform completely. Similarly, here we had the security group and VPC ingress rule. So if you just want to verify you can just say terraform state pull. And now you see you only have one resource. So under resource you only have the IAM user. And no security group related resources are present. Alright, so I hope with this you understood the Terraform state. Mm. Again, a very useful command in wide variety of use cases. One primary use case where we discuss where a resource has been modified so many times that you simply do not really want to manage it via Terraform. At this stage, the next important command is the Terraform state env. Again, this is something that you might be using as part of your day to day environment and use cases. So at an overview this is used to move an item in the state to a different address. So let's also quickly explore this. So as of now we are only managing a AWS user through Terraform. So let's say you change the name over here from dev to prod. Alright just a name change that has happened. Let's save this and from the CLI you go ahead and do a terraform plan. So just a single name change. You see what Terraform is trying to do. It is trying to destroy the resource and it is trying to recreate it again. So this is something that you do not really want specifically if you have servers in AWS or any other environment, and if you want to change the name, you simply cannot destroy the servers and recreate it again because the data will be lost. So in such case, if you want to change the name, then you can make use of the MV command. So you can say Terraform state MV. Then you can copy the exact address.dev and specify the new address of prod. All right. So once this resource address has been moved you can now change this to prod and save the change. Now if you do a terraform pull you will see no changes. In fact we should do a terraform plan. As expected, no changes. And the last subcommand as part of the Terraform state management is the replace provider at an overview. This command is used to replace the provider for the resources that are part of the Terraform state. Now, generally, if you look into the state file. In fact, let's fetch the latest state file. I'll say Terraform state pull. If you look into the state file there is a provider section. And within here you have this provider. So currently you're using the AWS provider which is under the namespace of HashiCorp in registry.terraform.io. Now many times what happens is organization might have their own custom provider. So let's say a custom provider of AWS has been created by modifying multiple things. And instead of using this specific provider, you want to use your custom AWS provider. In such case, you have to make use of the replace provider so it will look something like this Terraform state replace provider. Then you have to specify the current provider and the new provider that you want to use. So the current provider is HashiCorp, AWS and the new provider address you can add, let's say KP Libsyn slash internal slash AWS. Now again, note that in case if you mess up this, then your project might not work. So in fact, just for safety, let me just do a Terraform state pull once again from a different tab. All right. So that we have this. So now if I go ahead and if I press enter here. So it is asking us for confirmation. So this is the current provider in the state file. This is the new provider address. And this is the resource that is getting impacted. So it is asking for confirmation I'll say yes. All right. So successfully replace provider for one resource. Now if you do a Terraform state pull. You see in the provider this time you have KP labs dot n slash internal slash AWS. Now we know that this provider does not really exist. So now if you try to do operations like Terraform plan, you see it gave an error stating failed to load plugin schemas. So now just for safety let's change the provider. So I'll say Terraform state replace provider will replace it from this to simply the official one. Will confirm it with a yes I'll clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform plan. And things are working as expected. Great. So I hope with this you understood the basics of the Terraform state management and how you can modify certain aspects of the state file using the Terraform state subcommands without having to modify the file manually. So with this we will conclude today's video.