Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing about the benefits that the remote state data source provides and how it allowed the security team to connect to the TF state file that is managed by a networking team in a remote state, fetch the value and use it as part of their configuration. Now, in today's video, we are going to look into it from a practical point of view to understand the step by step approach required to achieve this use case. So for today's video, the practical workflow steps would look something similar to this. First we are going to create two folders, one for the networking team and second one for the security team. Now in the networking team folder, we are going to create a TF file that creates a elastic IP address in AWS, which is the public IP address. And the networking team resource should store the state file, not locally but remote. So the remote option here is the S3 bucket. So whatever state is created, it must be created as part of S3 and the IP resource should also have the output values that will have the information of the IP. Now again, at this stage, we have already discussed about the other aspects about the output values, the remote state and so on. So this is not some kind of a challenge. We will directly use a readymade snippet of code that achieves these steps. So let's go ahead and quickly do that. So in the KP Labs Terraform folder let's go ahead and quickly create a folder I'll say networking team and second folder I'll say security team. All right. Now in the networking team let's in fact open this up with the Visual Studio Code. In the networking team, I'll create a file called as IP, tf. And similar to what was mentioned as part of the workflow step, this file should create a elastic IP resource. The TF state must be stored as part of the S3 bucket, and the output value should also be present. Now I already have a ready made code that is available, which allows us to achieve the first part, which is to create an elastic IP resource. And you also have the output values here. All right. Now again all of this code is part of our GitHub. So that you can also reference to it directly. Now this is the first part. Now at this stage whenever you do a terraform apply although the elastic IP will be created but the terraform.tf state file will be stored locally. This is not what we want. We want that the TF state file must be stored remotely in the S3 bucket. So in such case you will need a S3 bucket. Now you can also use an existing bucket, but in case if you'd like you can also create a bucket. Let me quickly create a bucket. Let me give it a name say KP Labs Networking Bucket demo. Now note that if you are trying to create a bucket with the same name, it might not work because this bucket name must be unique across S3. So make sure to give some unique name here. So I'll just quickly create a S3 bucket from scratch. And now if I quickly search it KP labs. Networking bucket demo. So this is the place where we want the terraform.tf state file to be stored. Now, in order to achieve this, you can also look into the documentation. Now the overall approach to store the state file to S3 is very simple. You have the example configuration. Again I'll be adding it as part of our GitHub for you to reference it. So I'll copy this and you can just create a file called as backend.tf. And I'll save this here. Now in case if you are wondering where exactly I got it from, it is under the backend configuration of S3. Again, I'll be adding the link so that you can reference to it. So within your first you have to specify the bucket name. So whatever bucket that you have created you can copy the name. You can add it here then is the key. Now within the key you can just say ap.tf state. That is fine. Now in case if this bucket has some folders, then you can redirect things accordingly. Here, however, we want to store it as part of the root of the bucket. And the last part is the region. This is important. So in case if you want to verify this bucket is created in the US East one region. So make sure that region here is US East one. All right I'll go ahead and I'll save this. Now within the networking team here I'll go ahead and I'll open up the terminal. Let's go and do a terraform init quickly. All right. So our init is successful. I'll clear the screen. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. And if things are good you can go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve. Great. So our IP is created. And since we had added the output values as part of the code, it is also showing you the IP address of the elastic IP. Now you can also go back to the S3 bucket, you can refresh it. You will see a new file called as ip.tf state. Now you can open this file quickly. Now sometimes what happens is that the option keeps on changing in case if open is not available, you can try downloading the file and then opening it anyways. Now if you look into the tf state file, you will see in the output section we have the IP value which is 44 195111. 26. In case if you would like, you can also verify this manually through the EC2 console. So within here if you go to the elastic IPS you see this is the elastic IP that got created. All right. So at this stage we have achieved the first portion of the use case. Now comes the second portion of the use case where the security team needs to create a code that can fetch the value from the remote state and use it as part of their code. So this is where the step number three comes in, where now what we have to do in the security team, we have to make use of the feature of the Terraform remote state data source to connect to the Terraform TF state file of the networking team. This is one important part, and the last pointer is that we have to use the remote state to fetch the IP and whitelist it as part of the security group rule. So first we need to create a security group and a security group rule. So let's go ahead and quickly do that. So let's go back to the KP Labs Terraform folder. In fact let's open up the Visual Studio here so that we have access to both of these. All right. So the networking team part we have already done. So this part is already completed. So we'll minimize this. Now we'll go to the security team part within here I'll create a file called as CTF. And I'll add a code snippet here. Again I'll be adding this code snippet in GitHub so that you can directly reference to it. Now what exactly this code is doing a very simple code. It is creating a security group and it is creating a new inbound rule for this security group, which adds this specific Cidr block one, 72, 31, 20 or 30 on the port of 443. Now what we want is we do not want this IP address. We want the IP address that is created by the networking team to be added as part of this block. So it needs to be computed automatically. So what you need to do as part of the configuration of security team, you have to use the feature of the Terraform remote state data source to tell that I want to fetch a value from a S3 bucket that is being managed by the networking team, and fetch the value of the IP address, and then compute it as part of my code. So this is what we want. Now, as we know that this specific approach can be solved using a feature of remote state data source. So how exactly this can be achieved. Let's look into it. So just to revise the Terraform remote state data source, it allows us to fetch the output values from a specific state backend. Now the overall practical scenario would look something similar to this. First we have to define the remote state source. So as we know that the remote state can be in S3 bucket, it can be in any other remote backends. So which backend. The state file is stored. So first you have to define it as part of the Terraform remote state. This is one very important part after you have defined it. So again this definition must be in the security teams Terraform configuration. All right. So once this is done the second part is you can then use the data block to connect to the AP tf state file using this specific remote state. So here you see data which is this one dot terraform underscore remote underscore state which is this part followed by AP outputs AP underscore EDR which is nothing but the output values associated with this. So let's go ahead and try this out. Now within the documentation of Terraform remote state data source, you will quickly see the appropriate details on how both of these steps can be achieved. The step number one is you have to specify the remote state backend where exactly the state is stored. For example, in the security team folder, you have to define where exactly you want to fetch the state file of networking team from. Is it an S3 bucket, is it in console and so on. If it is in S3 bucket, what is the name of the S3 bucket inside S3 bucket? Where is the TF state file of the networking team stored? What is the name of that TF state file? So all of those you have to define it as part of the data. Terraform underscore remote state. So let's go ahead and copy this. So this is the step number one. All right. So in the security team I'll just create a file called as data.tf. And I'll add the contents here. Now again, if you see the contents are not associated with S3, so this requires some form of modification. So the first configuration change that we are going to do is back end. So the back end here is going to be S3. Now within the config you have to specify the name and the details of S3 bucket. So here what you can do. You can open up the back end or TF of networking team. And within here as we have seen you have back end of S3. And then you have specified bucket key and region. So you can copy the same thing and you can add it over here. All right. There is a extra curly brace that we are going to remove. And this is how the Terraform remote state data source looks like. So now as part of the security team, you have now defined that I need to fetch data from this specific S3 bucket from a file of IPF state. So now the next part is in the Cidr block you have to specify that the value needs to be fetched through this data source under the file of IPF state, and even there the output with the name of IP addr. And this is the value. So the approach would look something similar to this. So you will say data dot terraform underscore remote underscore state dot the name of this. In this case it is VPC I'll say VPC dot. All right. This part is easy to understand. Now you have to specify this which is outputs. And then you have to specify the name associated with the output values which is IP underscore addr. So here I'll say outputs followed by IP underscore addr. All right. This is one part. And since AWS expects the Cidr block should be with a specific range like 32 and so on, what you can do within your will, add some kind of interpolation. I'll say something like this. Slash 32. All right. So whatever value that is computed here will be added with slash 32 block. All right. So this is what the overall workflow is. Let's go ahead and try this out now from the security team I'll quickly open this up in terminal. And again here we'll do a quick Terraform init. Everything is successful. Let's go ahead and quickly first validate our configuration. Sometimes there can be mistakes. Fortunately this time there are none. So now let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. So generally at the plan stage itself you'll be able to quickly identify if your code is working. If it is working you see in the Cidr IPv4, you'll quickly get the IP address that it has fetched from the remote state here, which is 44 195111.26, which is same as this one. So with this we'll conclude today's video.