Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to look into the importance of no color flag that you can add as part of many of the Terraform CLI commands. So let's go ahead and get started. Now the first point states that many of the Terraform CLI commands also have the hyphen no hyphen color flag that is available. So first let's go ahead and quickly look into the difference when you have this and when you do not have this post which will be discussing things in more detail now at a high level. Overview. Whenever you run commands like Terraform plan by default this no color flag is set to disabled. So this is the reason why when you look into the output, you see you have colors that are available as part of the output here. Like for example plus sign is in green color. If you are updating the resource, it would be in a different color. If you are destroying the resource, it is in a red color and so on. So this is the default configuration here. Next is if you have the no color flag, set something similar to the screenshot. You see the coloring part as part of the output is no longer present. Now the question that comes is what is the importance of this? Because coloring seems to be quite useful for us. Why having a no color proves to be beneficial for many of the use cases. Now, before we look into it, let's go ahead and try this out post, which will be discussing things in detail now for today's video under the KP Labs Terraform folder. I have a very simple file. If I open this, what it does is it creates a simple security group in AWS. Now, just for simplicity, let's go ahead and run the Terraform init once. Then we'll go ahead and do a Terraform plan. I just wanted to show you various color options that are generally available. So at this stage you have only one color of green because the new resource are getting created. So now let's go ahead and do a Terraform. Apply with auto approve so that our resource is created ether. Once the resource is resources created. Just for simplicity, let's go ahead and change the name. I'll just call it as KP labs. I'll save this will clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan yet again. And now you see you have multiple colors that are available. This primarily stands for update. And you also have a red color primarily because some part might be removed. Now for example, let's say that I comment this code out completely. Now what Terraform will do since code is not present, Terraform will assume that the resource is no longer required and it will try to destroy the resource. And we know that destroy is associated with the red color. Now by default, as we know that the coloring is enabled. But in case if you like, you can also go ahead and disable it. For example, when you do a Terraform plan. Hyphen no. Hyphen color the same red color for destruction of resources that we saw is no longer available here. So now that we understanding the basics on what exactly this no color flag allows us to achieve, let's go ahead and look into it in more detail. So generally, whenever you have this no color flag added, it disables the terminal formatting sequence in the output. And the second point is very important, which states that you should use this specific flag. If you are running Terraform in a context where its output will be rendered by a system that cannot interpret terminal formatting, this is very important. There are many automation scripts that you will see which does not directly work with terminal formatting, and this is where the no color flag setting is quite important. So again, I am sure that this is not clearly understood yet. So let's take example of two use cases which will make this topic quite clear. So the use case number one is when the color is enabled. So let's say that you run the Terraform plan and you output this to a file called as color dot plan. Now what happens if you open this file in Visual Studio? Let's look into it. It looks something similar to this. You see all of this that is added over here unnecessarily. It makes things difficult, specifically when you are using this as an output to interpret some information from some kind of an automation script or tool. So now when we discuss about use case two where the color is disabled. So this time similar command terraform plan hyphen no color. We are outputting it to a file called as no color dot plan. And now when you interpret that as part of Visual Studio, you see it looks so clean. The reason why it is clean, as we know, is because no color is set. And this when you provide it to some third party automation tool, it becomes much more easier for them to interpret things. Let's go ahead and try this out. So I'll clear the screen. I'll go ahead and I'll do a terraform plan and I'll save it to say color dot plan. This is the first file. And similarly we'll do a Terraform plan and we'll have a no color flag set and we'll output it to no color dot plan. So now in the Visual Studio, in fact the folder is not opened. Let's go ahead and open the entire folder here. So first when you look into the color dot plan, you see all of these details that are added unnecessarily. It makes things quite complicated whenever you are interpreting it with third party tools. So to make things easier we use color flag. And with color flag you see things are much more cleaner. Great. Now, although by default, as we know, coloring is enabled. This is good from human perspective. But when you have some automation scripts, when are some other tools that are involved that looks into this data? Having a no color flag that is set proves to be quite beneficial. So that's a high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.