Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the Terraform testing framework. Now relatively this is a newer feature that has been introduced in Terraform. And I would say this is very useful in wide variety of use cases, specifically in organizations, if you are maintaining your own set of modules that are regularly updated, the overall testing framework will prove to be very useful in saving your time and ensuring that there are no bugs or minimal bugs that are being released as part of the code. So with this, first, let's go ahead and understand the real need of having a testing framework in Terraform post, which will be discussing about what this feature allows us to do. So this can be better understood with this relatable scenario. So what happened was few years back I went for a jungle safari. So generally I do not prefer this, but it was a family event so I had to go through. Now generally what happens here is that you have these small jeeps which takes you inside the jungle to see the wild animals and all. Now before I actually sat inside the Jeep, I was testing everything, whether the door handles were loose, whether the driver after he had applied the central lock, whether doors opening, whether the grilles that were fitted near the windows where those grilles loose. If I shake it, does it shake, and so on. So multiple set of testing was done before we went inside the actual jungle. So in a very similar scenario, before you deploy your code to the production environment, you have to test each and every aspect of it. Whether the function that you have written as part of the code, is it working perfectly? What happens if you give a wrong input? What happens if you give a different value as part of the variable? Will it get validated? And so on. So this is very important. Specifically even in Terraform. Make sure that everything gets tested very thoroughly. And ideally it should not be manual testing. It should be an automated way of testing. Now although these kind of vehicles, they seem to have adequate protection like grilles are there, doors are locked and so on. I always wonder how adventurous you might want to be for the people who go in a jungle with the open Jeep safari. You know something similar to this? You know there are no protection in the Jeep. I feel this is very risky, but potentially a quite common scenario. Again, I am sure that there might be a logic to it related to the psychology of a wild animal, but still. Alright, so similar to how we test each and every thing as part of a vehicle before we go inside a jungle similar to that. Even for Terraform, you have to test each and every thing before the code gets committed as part of your git repository, and while it gets deployed as part of the production environment. Now, when you discuss about this testing, this testing can range from smallest unit like function to the entire unit using Terraform apply. So many times you will see there are wide variety of functions that are being used as part of your Terraform code. So have you tested the function thoroughly? Is the input validated as expected. What happens if you give a wrong input? What is the overall approach that Terraform will take if there is a invalidated input and so on. So all these things must be tested thoroughly before it goes to the production environment. Because what would happen is once the code is in the production environment, once the infrastructure is deployed, then if you try to change, it becomes a lot of hassle. It will take time, you have to test things very thoroughly and so on. So while the code is in the development, you have to write good amount of test cases where bugs can be found out quite easily, even when the code gets updated at a later stage. So in order to understand the overall workflow, we are going to take a very simple scenario where a S3 bucket based Terraform code has been written. So the use case states that a user in your organization. He has written a simple S3 bucket based Terraform code. Let's assume that the user is new to Terraform, and he wants to deploy the infrastructure to terraform for your organization. So he has asked you for a review for this code. Now, overall, this code looks quite decent. You have a variable of S3 bucket name, which can be assigned a value through a wide variety of use cases like Terraform, TF, AWS, and so on. Now the question that comes is is this code valid? And if so, will it work all the time? So this is the question what is going to be your answer. Whether it can be yes. Whether it can be no. Now the short answer to this is yes. The code is valid, but with multiple ifs. Now generally, whenever you are deploying resources for any cloud provider, there are always certain restrictions in terms of names and other areas that you can assign as part of the resource. For example, in AWS, in many of the resources, there are certain naming rules that you need to follow. For example, in S3 you have a naming rule that states that bucket names must be between three minimum and 63 Maximum characters long. Now, although this code by itself is valid, the second part will it work all the time, is not directly answerable because it depends upon the value that is assigned to this variable. If you assign a value like two character name, then your code will fail because the S3 itself will not allow the bucket to be deployed. If you have a 64 character long variable value, again, it will fail. Apart from that, you see bucket name must not start with a prefix of x and hyphen hyphen. So if someone tries to give this name as part of the variable value again, it will fail. Now, generally, whenever you are writing some kind of a module or even the code, if you have a simplified way to quickly verify if the code will work perfectly or not, what are the things that you will be checking first? You will be checking whether the variable value, whatever value is assigned, may be. Let's say as part of the Terraform tf words, whether it has a minimum of three and maximum of 63. Then, whether the bucket name is of lower case, it has number dots and hyphens. Apart from that, does it have any other kind of value which will not be allowed? Whether the bucket name has x and hyphen, hyphen and so on. So all of these are part of the test. So you have to test whether each and every part of this naming rules are being followed. If they are followed, then ideally you will not really have an issue in deploying the S3 bucket. If some things are not followed. Then again, during the terraform apply, the overall deployment will fail. Now, the way in which you can test this either is manual. So you look into what is the value assigned in Terraform to first compare it against each of these rules. So the manual part is something that you do not really want. You need automated test that should happen. And this is where the Terraform test comes into picture. So here we have a similar code that we had discussed in the initial slide and what we do. We make use of the Terraform test to validate the configuration, to ensure that it does not introduce any breaking changes. So what you will do whatever test that we were discussing related to the naming rules, you convert it to a Terraform code. We will be discussing about this at a later stage in detail. For example, verify if length is greater than three. Verify if length is less than 63. Verify if name does not start with x and hyphen, hyphen and so on. All of these, you can add it as part of the test, and then you can test your code against the test cases that you have written here. Now, based on the test cases that you have written, you will get a pass or fail result. So the way in which you can go ahead and test the code is using the Terraform test command. We will be discussing about this in just a moment, and the output of this will be a passed failed result. So if you look into it from a screenshot perspective, this is how it really looks like where you do a Terraform test once you run Terraform test, depending upon the test that you have written, for example, you see verify character limit, it is pass, verify invalid name, it is pass, and so on. And at the end you will see three passed and zero fail. So depending upon how many test cases that you have written, Terraform test will go ahead and check against all of these test cases. And then it will give you a pass or fail result. So once you have enough test coverage at a certain probability, you can say that, hey, 95 to 98% probability. The code is not going to give me any issue in the production environment. And this is the reason why it is important to have extensive test cases. Specifically, if you are writing modules that are being used by multiple set of end users. So let's do one thing. Let us go ahead and look into this from demo perspective. In this video, we are just going to look into the Terraform test at an overview. The aim is to make sure that the overall concept is better understood. Once the concept is better understood, then we'll go ahead and look into it from the practical perspective in great detail. All right. So let's go ahead and quickly explore this from demo site. All right. Now similar to the code that we had seen as part of the screenshot, this is a very simple code. It creates an S3 bucket. And the bucket name is a variable. So whatever variable value that you assign as part of this that bucket name will be created. I also have a simple terraform block with a required providers of AWS. Anyways, so now let's focus on this specific code. Now at this stage, if you do a Terraform plan, it will ask us for a variable value. So what you can do, you can just add a default value whatever value that you require. Let's say I add a value of high now from the CLI. If I go ahead and if I do a Terraform plan you see things seems to be working all right. You see it is trying to create a bucket of high. And if you do a terraform, apply with auto approve. It is trying to create an S3 bucket immediately. You got an error stating that a specified bucket is not valid. All right, now this is the reason why whatever value that is been assigned to a variable, it must be validated to ensure that during the apply stage it should not fail. Because let's say that there are ten resources that are getting created. Five resources have been created. Now it is time for S3 bucket and the Terraform apply has failed because of this. So this is not a good experience specifically for the end users. This is the reason why in case if you have the Terraform test and you run the Terraform test, it can quickly identify if all the aspects of the code are passing the test or not. Ideally, you should also have the input variable validation here, which is very useful. However, this time we are exploring from the test perspective. Now let me quickly show you. So if I do a Terraform test over here? I have already written the test. Let's go ahead and run this command. So at this stage, you see there are multiple rules based on which it is testing everything. First is verify character limit. So since the variable value was a two character, it is stating bucket names must be three minimum and 63 maximum characters long. Second is verify invalid name. So we already know that x and hyphen hyphen is not allowed as part of the bucket name. So this is pass and there are other test also that are pass. Overall it has resulted in failure where there are two paths and one failed. Now ideally, depending upon the resources that you are writing, the number of tests will also be much more extensive so that you can quickly identify whether the resource will be created without any issues or not, with a high degree of probability. Now, tests are generally used very extensively if you are writing modules, and these modules are getting updated frequently by a wide variety of team members. So whenever someone updates the code as part of the module, they can run the Terraform test to ensure that new changes are not breaking the rules that are added as part of your overall test. Now, in a similar way, let us give a better value. Let's say hi from Zeel. All right. The hyphen is allowed. I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's do the Terraform test again. And this time, you see all of the tests have passed and the overall result is success. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you started to understand what Terraform test is allowing us to do. Now again, the practical aspect we will be discussing in great detail in the practical video. First, let us ensure that we understand things at an overview. Now the next important part that we have to keep a note of is the testing scope. Now. Many a times what happens is your resource might pass all the tests. Terraform plan is working perfectly well, but when you actually try to deploy the resource in production, you might get an error. And this is the reason why in Terraform test, you can validate the test both at the plan stage and at an apply stage. So in the plan stage, Terraform test will not go ahead and create the resource and verify the resource is getting created perfectly or not. So at a plan stage, it can go ahead and look into the attribute value that has been assigned, whether the value can meet the constraints of a provider or not. So all of these things it can test at a plant stage. The apply stage is where terraform test will actually create the resource for you. If the resource is created successfully, then the overall result will be successful, otherwise the resource will not be successful. Let's also go ahead and try this out. Now for the second demo I'll will quickly comment out this code and I'll add a simple code related to the EC2 instance. I wanted to show you both the plan stage and the apply stage so that we understand the basic concept. Now for today's demo, we are going to make use of Terraform test both at the plan stage and apply stage, and we will see how during the apply stage the resource gets created and it also gets terminated after it has tested everything. Now if you are curious, all of the test cases are part of this file, which is demo tf test.cl. Again, we will not be committing this code as part of GitHub. Will be creating everything from scratch in the practical video. At this stage, let's understand it theoretically. So the first test is going to be based on the plan stage. So I'll clear the screen I'll do a Terraform test here. Now you don't have to do terraform plan. Terraform test behind the scenes. It will do the Terraform plan. If things are working, it will show a success. Now since the test had passed and it was based on the plan stage. If I refresh, you see no instance were created at this stage. Now, the second use case that we were discussing were Terraform test will go ahead and test the entire creation of resource. So you can also call it as a apply stage. So our code is modified accordingly. Now if you do a Terraform test this time it will go ahead and it will create the entire resource. It will verify if everything is working, then only it will give you a success or fail message. And this is the reason why you see, this time you are not instantaneously getting the Terraform test result because the resource creation takes time. Again, it depends upon the resource that is being created. However, you can always verify. So if I refresh this, you see a new resource with a name of Hello World got created. So this is a new server that is created and the test result is passed. Now the next part is very important what it is showing you tearing down. So after Terraform has completed its testing, it will go ahead and it will destroy the resource for you. Very important part to remember. So if I refresh the page, you see it is shutting down the instance and then the instance will be terminated. And now the final result is success. So if I refresh the page you see the instance has been terminated. Great. So I hope with this at a high level overview you understood the basics of the Terraform testing scope. Now the question that comes is what is the use case of apply stage? If Terraform tests can go ahead and test for wide variety of cases at a plant stage itself. Why do you need to actually create the resource? And in fact there is a reason why. So let's say I make some mistake as part of the Army ID. Alright, let me just remove a few characters here, add some random ones. I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Now. Let's say our Terraform tests can go ahead and run the test at a plant stage, So I'll just do a Terraform test. We get a success. One passed. Now let's explore the second scenario where Terraform test will go ahead and deploy the resource before it can tell you a success or failure. So I'll run the Terraform test again. So this time Terraform test will use the apply stage that we were discussing as part of the scope. As we were discussing this time it is trying to create a resource for you and at an apply stage it got an error stating invalid army ID found. All right. So many a times what happens is unless and until you do a terraform apply, you cannot be 100% sure whether the resource will be created or not. Again, you can have enhanced set of test cases where it can be detected at a plant stage itself, but you cannot always be 100% sure with 100% of the resources. And this is the reason why, in order to give customers flexibility, the Terraform has given you option of both the plan stage and apply stage as part of the testing. Now, just for revision, I have also shared the apply stage workflow where behind the scene Terraform tests will go ahead and do a Terraform apply. It will launch the resources. If everything is working, it will also go ahead and destroy the resources for you. Now, one part that needs to be remembered here is that when Terraform doesn't apply, we know that it might be maintaining the state. So in such case, Terraform test uses and manages the state file within the memory. So this is become much more easier. And your main state file does not really get affected directly. So before we conclude one point that you have to keep a note of is that the overall Terraform testing framework is available in the Terraform version 10.60.0 and later. So you have to keep this in mind. So I hope with this at an overview you understood what Terraform test allows us to do. Now again, for a individual based simple code, it might not really matter to write extensive set of tests. But when you have a big module for, say, S3 or for EC2, then in such cases having a test framework proves to be very important. Specifically, let's say currently my module is working perfectly well. I have tested each and every case and things are working well. Tomorrow, some other team member modifies the module to enhance it with some new feature that was released as part of AWS or any other resource. So when he has modified the module, it can happen that he has made some mistake and he might not perform extensive amount of testing. And in this case, if you have already written the test cases extensively, all you can say hey, if you are modifying this module after modification, just run the Terraform test to ensure that all of the test cases are passing. So this way, whenever module gets modified, all you have to do is run the Terraform test. You don't have to manually test each and every function and so on. So this way life can become much more simpler. All right. So that's an overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.