Hi everyone, and welcome to the practical video associated with the Terraform test. So let's get started. Now. In the earlier video, we were discussing about the basics of Terraform test. And depending upon the test use cases that you have written. By running the Terraform test command, it will validate your entire code and based on that, you will get the appropriate result. Now the question that comes is where exactly do you write all of these tests? Like example verify if length is greater than three, where exactly all of these tests are written. So that is the first important part of today's video, which states that each Terraform test lives in a test file, and Terraform will discover the test file based on their file extension, which are.tf, test.cl or.tf test dot JSON. For example, whenever we write Terraform code, you generally end it with an extension of.tf, for example, demo, dot tf, and so on. In a similar way, all of these tests that you want to write, it is defined in a file with this specific extension here. Ideally you will see tf test.cl is the extension that is widely used. Now for today's video I have a very simple file called as Sgtf. What it does, it creates a security group for you in AWS. So this is one part. Now let's say you want to write test for the code that is being deployed. Now what you can do you can create a new file. You can give a name say demo.tf test.cl. All right. So the extension is very important. If you do not have the right extension then the Terraform test will not be able to find the file. All right. So this is where you can go ahead and write the test cases. There are other ways also we will be discussing them in just a moment. Great. So at this stage the first important part is completed. Now that we have created the file. The second question is how do you define the test? What is the format in which you can write the test here. So this is what the next slide is all about which states that each test file contains one to many run blocks. So inside the file that we have created, you have to add a run block followed by the name. Now you can add any name over here that is completely fine. So this is what our test looks like a very simple test here. Now what exactly will this do. This will go ahead and it will deploy this resource for you. If the resource is successfully deployed, then the test is passed. If there are any issues in deploying the resource test is failed. Very simple use case here. Let's go ahead and try this out. So within the TF test file all you have to do you have to add a run block that basically tells Terraform test to run this specific block give a name let's say demo underscore test. And that's about it a very simple test that you have written here. This is perfectly valid test. Now from the CLI whenever you do a Terraform test. Now, one thing that I wanted to show you before we run the command is that the terraform folder. At this stage, no terraform.tf state file has been created for you. All right. Now we know that whenever you do a terraform, apply a TF state file gets created for you. Now, when this test gets run, we know the resource will be deployed after it gets deployed successfully. Terraform test will also destroy the resource for you and then it will tell you success or failure. Now from the AWS console, let me go to the security groups here. At this stage, you see only one security group is available with the name of default. Again, in your case, if there are multiple ones, it does not really matter. So let's go ahead and do a Terraform test. So at this stage test is in progress. Now if I refresh this let's refresh. You see the test has actually deployed the resource of security group with the name of Demo firewall. And after it has successfully deployed you will get a pass result and then it will go ahead and destroy the resource for you as well. So you don't really have to worry for that. And then you get the success message stating one passed. So if you refresh this, you see the security group has also been removed. In case if you're wondering whether TF state file gets created for you or not, in fact, you can refresh this. I'll refresh this. And you see, there is no TF state file that has been created. Now just for demo. If you go ahead and if you have a wrong name, let's just remove E here, I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. Let's do a Terraform test. You see it is not really checking anything. There is zero pass, zero fail. And this is the reason why having a proper name is very important. Otherwise, whatever test cases that you have written as part of this file will never be tested. Great. So I hope with this you understood the basic of test file and the basic of run blocks here. Now one part to remember is that you can add multiple set of run blocks that can test each and every aspect of a specific resource based on the requirement. The next important part is the test command. Now, by default, as we are discussing, if you just specify a run block with its name, the default configuration is that Terraform test will go ahead and apply the resource. And based on that it will mark the test as either pass or fail. However, you might not always want to apply many of the cases like for example, if you want to test the functions, if you want to test the overall code, I would say 70 to 80% of the use cases. In fact, even higher can be achieved at a plant stage itself. When we discuss about Terraform testing, you don't have to always do an apply here. So when majority of the test cases can be verified at a plant stage, it is important for us to understand on how we can make the Terraform test run at a plan level so that the resource does not get created. So in order to do that, Similar to the name of the slide, which is the test command. What you have to specify inside this, you have to specify a command and the value will be plan. Now very important part to note if you do not specify this we know the default is apply. However, if you do not want and apply you have to specify a command of plan. All right I'll save this. So now after clearing the screen, if you do a terraform test this time it will not deploy the resource for you. And this is the reason why. You see, it was so fast in telling us whether the test cases were passed or not. Now, in fact, let me also quickly show you one thing that can ensure us that it is in fact running at a plant stage. So let's say I'll say terraform, hyphen, firewall. In fact, let's verify whether the name is correct. In fact it is demo firewall. Let's give the same security group name here I'll create a security group. In fact let's add some random description here. I'll create it now in AWS. When you try to create two security groups with the same name. You see it is giving an error stating that the security group name already exists. Now, if you want to verify 100% if it is not applying because this tearing down part is a little confusing, you might assume that it is destroying the resource that it has created, but it is not. Now, if you do a Terraform test, let's see. It is showing success one passed. However, we know that if you try to deploy it in production, it will fail. So let's go ahead and try this out. I'll just remove the command of plan. I'll save this. This time when you do a terraform test, it will go ahead and try to deploy the security group resource. And as expected, we are getting a failed message stating the security group already exists. All right. So I hope with this you understood the importance of command here and also the importance of deploying the resource using apply to test these kind of use cases. Now, from what I have seen most of the organization, they do not do a Terraform apply specifically in the production environment. Most of the test cases are run at a plant stage itself. Alright, so again I have added the appropriate slide with the screenshot so that it becomes easier for us to remember. The next important part is the location of the test file. Now at this stage we have created our test file called as demo tf test.cl in the root of our configuration directory. However, in case if you would like, you can also add it in the tests directory with a S. So you have a dedicated directory of tests. And within here you can have multiple set of run files. Even in such scenario Terraform test will take these by default. For example, let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and create a tests directory here I'll go ahead and I'll cut this and I'll paste it here just for simplicity. In fact, let's close this just for simplicity. Make sure that you have a plan so that our test can pass or fail easily. Let's do a Terraform test once again. And again. You see, as expected, it has detected our demo tf test file. And based on this, our run block has been executed. Now, if you just rename the file to say test, let's try Terraform test once again. This time you see it was not able to detect the TF test file because the test directory has the name issue. Great. So that's a very high level overview about Terraform test and how you can create the basic test. Again you can create extensive set of tests that can check a wide variety of use cases. As part of this practical video, we have kept things very simple to understand the overall very basic workflow of Terraform test. So with this, we'll conclude today's video.