Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the assertions related aspect as part of Terraform test. Now at this stage when we were exploring Terraform test, the use case that we were discussing were very simple, where we used a run block to test our code, both at the apply stage as well as at the plan stage. Now, although this is quite good enough to begin with. However, this does not allow us to have good amount of benefits. So someone might say that hey, if tests are going to run at plant stage, I might as well run the plan myself from the CLI. And same thing can be said as part of the apply stage as well. So what we want is we want our test to be quite granular. And we were discussing about this in the initial video as well, where you need lot of flexibility in terms of test cases that you might want to write. You just don't want a plan or a apply operation. For example, if you see the test case here, verify length is greater than three or verify if length is less than 63, and so on. So these are the test cases that are going to be useful. So we need to understand on how we can convert these test cases in a Terraform code so that when you run the Terraform test, it will go ahead and run each of these tests and let us know if results are pass or fail. So this approach is what we are going to discuss in today's video. Now, the way in which we can convert the test that we were discussing in the table to a logical code, it would look something similar to this. Where inside the run. Here you have a assert block, and inside the assert block you have the condition and you have the error message. Now in case if you have gone through the video of pre-condition post-condition or input variable validation in all of those condition and error message are also used. And even in the run block the same logic applies. So just to revise condition in the condition it can be a true or false. And if the condition is true, that means the test will be passed. If the condition is false, that means test will fail. For example, in this condition you are using a length function which states var dot s3 bucket name is greater than three. So if this is true, that means this test will be passed. Otherwise this test will fail and the error message generally appears as part of the CLI when the test fails. All right, so with this assert block there is a lot of flexibility. You can use so many functions to achieve the use case. And this is where the true power of Terraform test lies. So with this base set let's go ahead and get started with the practicals. Now for today's practical our code is very simple. We have a simple S3 bucket. The bucket name here. You see it's a variable. And this is the variable that is defined with a specific default value. And we also have a tf test.cl file with a simple run block. Now we already know that when we do a Terraform test, this run block will go ahead and apply this resource to verify if it is working or not. Now this part is something that we understand. Let's go ahead and look into the assert block and see on how exactly it works. Now within here I'll just say a command of plan because we do not want to apply. And within here we'll say an assert block inside the assert block. As we were discussing you have the condition and you have the error message. All right. So this is how the basic structure looks like. Now inside the condition there are so many Terraform functions that are available. So depending upon what exactly you want to check you can use the appropriate function accordingly. So for today's video we are going to make use of the length function. What does length do. It determines the length of a given list map or string. So if you see if you add hello the length is five. Now similar to the first list that we were discussing, verify if length is greater than three, because if it is less than three, then S3 will not allow the resource to be created. So in the condition you can say length and within here you can specify var dot s3 underscore bucket underscore name. So whatever variable value that is assigned to this the length function will check for the length. And what is the length. The length should be greater than three. So this is what you are looking for. If it is not greater than three then what error message should terraform show? It should show S3 bucket name must be greater than three characters. All right. A very simple block. Let's go ahead and save this. Now, from the folder, I'll quickly open up the terminal. We'll go ahead and we'll do a terraform test. At this stage our test is passed. Now, just to verify if things are working, you can go ahead and you can just add a hi over here. I'll save this again. When you run terraform test, you see, our test has failed. This is the condition that has failed. And whatever message that you have added as part of the error underscore message has been displayed here, which is S3. Bucket name must be greater than three characters. All right. So with this assert block you have a lot of flexibility related to what kind of use case that you want to write. Again, there are no restrictions per se in terms of using a specific function like length. There are so many functions that are available in Terraform. You can use many of these functions as part of the condition for use case that you might have. So that's our overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.