Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the root level attributes that you can add as part of the Terraform test. And we are also going to discuss about some of the important areas where you can achieve wide range of flexibility. Now at this stage, we already know that each Terraform test it lives in a test file, which is based on the extension of TF test.cl or tf test dot JSON. Now we have been using tf test.cl for our practicals and same you will be using for most of the organization based use cases as well. Now each test that you define as part of these files, it contains certain root level attributes. Here similar to what we are going to discuss first is that it can contain one to many run blocks. So it is not always necessary that you define just one run block. As part of the test file, there can be multiple set of blocks that can be added. The second one is that you can also have a variables block as part of the test file. This again is very useful and the test file can also have its own set of providers block. So if you look into this screenshot here, which is of demo.tf test.cl, you have a provider block, you have the variables block which contains the value, and you also have the run block here. Now the question that comes is since the provider variables are already defined as part of your Terraform configuration, what is the benefit of adding them as part of the TF test file? There are multiple benefits. Let's go ahead and discuss about each one of them. Post which will be going through the practical part as well. The first important part as we are discussing is that the TF test file can contain one to many run blocks, so it is not necessary that only one run block can be defined. You can have multiple set of run blocks that can also be added. Something similar to the screenshot that we were discussing. And when you have multiple set of run blocks that are defined, Terraform test will go ahead and run each of the run block for verification. Let's go ahead and also try it out now. For today's video we have a very simple file. What it does. It creates a security group. The name of the security group is a variable. And this is the variable that is defined. And within this variable we have demo hyphen firewall. All right. And we have also provided explicitly with the region of US east one. And if you look into the demo tftp, SQL, it's a simple run block that is defined. So the first pointer that we were discussing is that you can have multiple set of run blocks that can be added. So let's say test underscore run underscore two. And each run block can have its own set of test cases that you can use. So let's say for this I say command of plan. Now ideally each set of run block will have its own assert block and its own condition similar to what you see in the screenshot. However, we are just using this simple block for testing. Let's go ahead and try it out now from the CLI. I'll just do a Terraform test. Now, this will take a small amount of time because the first run block will go ahead and it will apply the resource. Second run block will be much more quicker because only the plan operation will run. So if you see first this run block has ran, then the second run block is running. And after that you have the success message that has been presented to you. So depending upon the use case, multiple run blocks can be added. The second part is the provider block. One of the great benefits here is that you can go ahead and set or even override the required providers. That is part of the main configuration from your testing file. For example, let's say that in your main configuration file of Terraform you have specified provider of Singapore. So now when you do a Terraform apply what will happen? It will go ahead and create resources in Singapore region. This is something that we already understand. So this provider is in the TTF file here. Now let's say that you have also defined a provider of Mumbai in your TF test.cl file. Now, when you do a Terraform test, considering that the run block will run at a apply stage where it will create a resource for you. What will happen is this resource will be created in Mumbai region. It will not be created in the Singapore region. All right. So there is a lot of flexibility in the provider block like alias and everything that you can give. But this is the basic workflow. Let's go ahead and also try it out. Now currently I am logged in to the AWS account. I am in the North Virginia region. Let's go to the security groups here. At this stage we only have one security group. Along with that, let's also open this in a new tab. And this time I'll go to the Mumbai region under the security groups. Again you have one security group here now based on the code that is currently defined. whenever this block runs, where will it go ahead and create a resource? It will go ahead and create the resource in the US East, one region that is defined here. In fact, let's go ahead and try it out. I'll just remove the second run block of plan. I'll save this. Let's clear the screen. This time when I do a Terraform test, we know it will go ahead and create a resource. So in the Mumbai region, if I keep on refreshing, you see in Mumbai region the resource has not been created. This resource has been created as part of the Virginia region. In fact, let's go ahead and try it out once again. So in the Virginia if I refresh. You see our demo firewall has been created here. After the test is completed, this firewall will be removed automatically. So let's quickly wait. So it has been removed at this stage. Now let's say that in production environment you want to test the resource creation, but you do not want to test in the production region. You want to test it in a different region, or maybe in a different account itself. So in such case, you can have a provider block at a test file level as well, which will override the provider block that is part of TF. So let's copy this and I'll add it here. And within the region I'll just say AP South one. All right. So this is the Mumbai region. So whenever resource this resource whenever test will go ahead and create a resource. It will create in the Mumbai region. I'll save this. Let's let's clear the screen. We'll go ahead and do a Terraform test once again. This time in the Mumbai region. You see the demo firewall has been created and after this it will also be removed. So if I just refresh this, it is no longer present. Great. So I hope with this you understood the benefit that provider block inside the TF test file can provide. The third important part is the variables block. Again, very similar to the provider block. If you want to override certain variables, this is possible by adding a variables block as part of the test file. So whenever you have the variables block in the test file, the value will be passed on to all of the run blocks that are part of the file. For example, if you see this is the main configuration file where you have the variable value of demo hyphen firewall. So this is the TFX file. And on the right you have the test file where the firewall name, the name of the variable here which is firewall name. The name is test hyphen firewall. So whenever run block executes it will take the value that is defined as part of the TFX test file, and not the value that is defined as part of the main configuration file. All right. So let's also go ahead and try it out. Now at this stage we already know that whenever firewall gets created the name is demo hyphen firewall. So for the TFX test file, also, you have the option in which you can override it. Now one part to remember here, like for example, here you define a variable. However, in the TFX test you have to define variables. Alright. With an S and within here you can define the name of the variable. So for example the name of the variable was firewall underscore name. I'll just copy it. And then you can just assign the value. Let's just call it as test hyphen firewall. All right. So now whenever run happens it will not go ahead and take this value. It will use this specific value that is defined I'll save this. Let's go ahead and try it out I'll run the Terraform test this time. Let's go ahead and refresh. You see a test firewall has been used and not the demo firewall. All right. So I hope with this you understood all of the three pointers. First one is one to many run blocks. Second is 0 to 1 variables. Block third is zero to many providers block. So before we conclude, let's go ahead and look into some of the pointers that you have to keep a note of. First one is that if you do not provide the provider configuration in the testing file, then Terraform will go ahead and initialize the provider from the main configuration. This is something that we already have seen. Where providers block in the TF testing file is not really mandatory. If you have not defined it, it will take it as part of the main configuration file, whatever provider that file is using. Second is the input variables are referred as variables, with an extra s inside a test file, and not the variable that we use as part of the normal tf file. The third pointer is that the variables that you define in the test file, it takes the highest precedence. It can override the environment variables. It can also override the variable file or command line input that you might have provided. Great. So that's a very high level overview. And with this we'll conclude today's video.