Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about an important topic which is Terraform modules. Now in most of the organizations that are mid to large sized, from what I have seen all of them, they make use of the Terraform modules quite extensively and in a longer term, even if you are working with a smaller scale organization, by making use of the modules, you will have to spend less time in writing the overall Terraform code to create the entire infrastructure for you. So with this base set, let's go ahead and understand in detail about the modules. Now, before we discuss about the modules in detail, it is important for us to understand the basics of the Dry principle in software engineering. So what does Dry mean? It means do not repeat yourself or don't repeat yourself. So the primary aim of this principle is that whatever code that you write for your organization, it can be in any language. The main aim here is to reduce the overall repetition in the software patterns, so this will make your code base much more smaller. It will improve the overall performance and in the longer term, even if you are maintaining the code, it becomes much more simpler for you. So let's go ahead and understand the importance of dry principle from Terraform perspective. So here we are taking an example where an organization has ten teams, and each team is using the Terraform to create and manage the EC2 instances for the required team members. So let's assume that you have a team one and team one in order to create a EC2 instance required for their own team, they create a simple Terraform code. This is one. Then you have a team two. Team two will create their own Terraform code. Same for team three, team four, team five, team six, and so on. Now if you discuss about mid to large size organization, they have hundreds of teams. Now if each of the team creates their own set of Terraform code to create a specific infrastructure object, in a longer term this is going to create a lot of issues for you. So discussing about the previous example here. Let's look into the challenges that an organization would face in a longer term. If the approach is continuously used, the first primary challenge is repetition of code. So here you see a very similar code is used across all of the teams. And this is what we are referring to as a repetition of code. Second challenge is any change that is made to a AWS provider or any of the options here. It will require all of the team's EC2 code blocks to be changed. Just for an example, let's assume that in the future version of AWS provider plugins, the Ami option is changed to image ID just for an example we are considering. So any change in the AWS provider plugin that affects any of the arguments. As part of the code base, all of the team members will have to change from Ami to image id. This is as an example. From practical point of view, there can be many more changes that are required. So one change and all of the teams code base needs to be revised. So this is the second challenge. The third challenge here is lack of standardization. Now since each team is managing their own code base related to Terraform, it cannot be ascertained that each team will follow the standard best practice, both in terms of security and terraform. The fourth one is that it is difficult to manage, and the fifth one, again, it is difficult for developers to use. So in order to overcome these set of challenges, which again are part of the dry principle which we just discussed, there is a better approach in this approach. A DevOps team or even a security team. They can create a standard EC2 template in a central location for all of the teams to use. For example, here, this is a template that is written by the DevOps team and this is a standard template. Let's assume that it follows all of the best practices now after this template is created by the DevOps team. Now all of the team members, they can make use of the standard template to create their own set of infrastructure. So now what will happen is first this the standardization will be maintained. Second is that any change at the AWS provider level that requires a change in the code. So now it only needs to be changed in the standard template. Each team do not need to modify their own code base here. All right. So this approach becomes much more simpler for the organization as well as for individual teams. Now this specific approach of standardizing and storing a central template here is referred to as a Terraform modules. So at an overview Terraform modules allows us to centralize the resource configuration similar to what we see over here. And since everything is centralized, it makes it easier for multiple projects to reuse the Terraform code for the projects. So let's do one thing before we proceed further to understand the benefits that Terraform module provide, let's have a quick demo to understand on how exactly this works. Now for today's demo under the KP Labs Terraform folder, we have one file called as demo hyphen modules. So let's go ahead and quickly explore this with Visual Studio. Now if you'll see over here this file contains three lines of code. It starts with module and there is a source. So this source points to the actual module which is the standardized template that we were discussing. So this standardized template that we were discussing this line points to that template. And this code that you see is what each team will have to write in their own code base to make a reference to the standardized template wherever it is present. So now let's go ahead and quickly open up the terminal here. Now again note that this is a demo video. We are going to explore the modules in detail practically in the upcoming videos. At this stage, the aim is to understand things at a theoretical perspective so that our concepts are clear now from the CLI if I'll quickly do a terraform plan here. You see, it is trying to create a infrastructure resource. Now what infrastructure resource it is trying to create. Let's see. It is trying to create a new AWS EC2 instance. And you see all of these options that are present over here. These are not defined here. These are defined in the actual module. So this module on the left that we see these are defined over here. And the developer team is just using it as a reference to create the infrastructure required by them. All right. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood what Terraform modules are trying to do. Now at this stage, note that multiple modules can be used even for a single project. For example, instead of writing the entire Terraform code from scratch, you can make use of multiple readymade modules. Maybe it might be written by the different team or even a different organization. You can use those modules for your project, and in such case, you don't have to start writing the code from scratch. So let's look into what I mean by this. So let's assume that you have four teams in your organization. Now, instead of creating the Terraform code from scratch, they can make use of say EC2 module and a VPC module. So we are assuming here that all of these teams need their own VPC and EC2 instance. So they'll use the readymade EC2 and VPC module and they'll create the infrastructure required by them. And this way things become much more simpler. So tomorrow if there is a team five and team six, the newer teams can also reference to these set of modules. To create the infrastructure things becomes so simple after modules are introduced in the organization where multiple teams are involved. Now at this stage, this specific part of multiple readymade modules is something that seems to be interesting because who would like to create the Terraform code from scratch if there is already a module that is available for you? So let's go ahead and quickly explore that as well. Now if we'll explore the Terraform registry, you see, there are so many modules that are available for a wide variety of infrastructure objects. You have IAM module, you have VPC module, ECS, which is the Kubernetes module, and so on. So let's explore one of them. So let's say that you aim to create a Kubernetes cluster in AWS. So do you have to go ahead and write the Terraform code from scratch. Let's explore that. So this is the resource of AWS ECS cluster. And if you have to create the ECS from scratch you have to look into the documentation, copy this, modify it accordingly, and so on. So there are so many options that are available. And as a developer who might want to create the cluster, this can become a little difficult to understand specifically if they are not familiar with a specific object. So instead of this you can directly make use of the X module. So let's open this. Let's explore the source code here. So this is the GitHub page. Now remember we were discussing that the DevOps team can go ahead and store the standard EC2 template in a central location. So this is one of the central location which is GitHub. Now if you'll explore the code. In fact let me quickly show you. So this is how the code really looks like. You see the code base is quite big. So these are all the options that are available. And instead of creating the entire code from scratch, you can use this readymade code that has been provided to you as part of the module to create the infrastructure for you. And this is the main and the most important benefit of using the Terraform modules. Great. So that's a very high level overview on the challenge that Terraform Modules tries to solve. And in the upcoming videos we'll look into these in quite detail practically. So with this we'll conclude today's video.