Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video, we were discussing the benefits that module provides and how it can make your life simple by writing less number of Terraform code and for the larger organization, how it can also bring a lot of benefits that they require related to not repetition of code, bringing in the standardization, security, best practices, and so on. So in today's video, we are going to have a small practical where we are going to make use of module to create a specific infrastructure object. And this way we will be able to understand the true benefit that module provides practically. Now note that we are going to discuss about modules in great detail in the upcoming set of videos. But today I just wanted to ensure that we are aware about the modules from practical point of view. So what we are going to do, let's say that we want to create a new EC2 instance in AWS, but you are a bit lazy, you are tired, you don't really want to write the entire code of EC2 instance. So what you do, you search for modules that are available that can create an EC2 instance. So in the Terraform registry site, which is registry dot terraform, dot io, there are multiple browse based options. You can browse for providers. There are so many providers AWS, Azure, AWS and so on. You also have the option of browse modules. This is what we are interested in. So when you click on browse modules over here. In fact, let me make it a little darker so it's easier to view. Now you see on the left hand side, there are so many modules available for a wide range of providers like Azure, Alibaba, AWS and so on. So let's say that I search by the provider of AWS here. You see you have modules for IAM, VPC, S3 bucket and so on. Now you might be wondering how many people in the real world environment actually makes use of module. Are there any organization that uses module or. Hardly, there are some, so let's explore that. So if you look into the IAM module here Here you see downloads this week 1.9 million downloads over all time 110 million. So from here you can imagine how many users, how many organizations are making use of modules in Terraform and how popular it is. And this is the reason why we are going to explore about modules in great detail. Now, generally there are, if you see, there are so many modules that are available. In fact, there are 950 pages. Amazing. So the one that we are interested in is EC2 module. We want to create a new EC2 instance. Now generally when you search for EC2 you see you have providers. You also have modules. So in modules if I click on see all, you see that there are so many users, you can even write a module and that module can be published in registry. So even individual contributors can be present. So what I generally prefer if you are looking for the official module, again we will be discussing about these things in detail in the later videos. Now in Google you can say Terraform AWS EC2 module. Just for an example, you will see the initial page of AWS EC2 instance module over here, and your downloads over all time is 14.4 million here. And again in the page itself, it basically gives you the instruction on how you can call the module. So these are the lines here. So let's do one thing in our labs Terraform folder. Again I have deleted all the contents. There is no file or folder present. So I'll go ahead. And I'll quickly open this up with Visual Studio. And let's create a new file. I'll just call it as EC2 hyphen module.tf. I'll simply copy this and I'll add it over here. All right I'll save this. And that's about it. So now let's quickly open up the command prompt from this folder itself. And the first thing that you'll need to do is you have to do a terraform init. Now here you see it is downloading the module associated with the EC2 instance for you. And it is also installing the required providers like AWS. All right. So once this is done you can do a Terraform plan. And here you see it is trying to create a new EC2 instance for you. Once you have verified you can go ahead and do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Let's in fact try it out. So it is creating a EC2 instance here and the apply is completed. Now in whatever region that you have configured as part of the AWS CLI, you see that one EC2 instance is currently running with a specific instance type over here. So after you have completed the testing, you can go ahead and also destroy the EC2 instance to avoid any unexpected cost here Arthur. All right. So now the destroying process has started and the instance will be terminated in a moment here. So from the CLI here, you see that the EC2 instance state is shutting down from running and the destroy is now completed. So if I refresh this again you see our EC2 instance is terminated. So I hope with this now you understood the benefit of the modules from a practical point of view. Now, one thing that I wanted to show you is that whenever you do a terraform init, what Terraform does behind the scenes is that it downloads the module code in your local workstation. So if you open the Terraform folder, you see along with the providers, you also have a folder of modules. If I open this, you have the EC2 instance module and the entire code. In fact, if I open this code, this is the module code that is written. So the entire code is downloaded for you in your local workstation here. Great. So that's a high level overview on how you can call a module from practical point of view. And with this we'll conclude today's video.