Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss some of the important pointers that you have to keep a note of whenever you are referencing to the Terraform module as part of your code. Now, the first important part that we have to keep a note of is that for some of the infrastructure resources, you can directly use the module calling code and the entire infrastructure will be created for you. So let's take an example where you have added the module code as part of your TF file. And now you do a Terraform init and Terraform apply and the infrastructure resource. In this case EC2 instance will be created for you. Now note that this kind of a behavior does not happen with all of the modules. And this is what the second slide is all about, which states that just by referencing any module. Now note that there are so many modules that are available for wide variety of providers, not all modules. Just by calling them, the infrastructure will be created for you directly for some of the modules, they require some kind of input and values from the user side as well before the resource creation begins. So let's do one thing before we explore the second part. First, let's have a quick demo related to this specific pointer that we were discussing post, which will be looking into the other areas as well. Now for today's demo, I have two modules that are available. One where after we call the module, we can directly do a init and apply and the infrastructure will be created for us. And second module where some kind of additional input value is required. So when we look into the EC2 instance module at this stage, note that the version at this stage is 5.6.1. Now, in our KP Labs Terraform folder, let's quickly open up our Visual Studio Code. We'll quickly create a file called as module.tf. Again, note that this is primarily a demo video for us to understand the concept. Now here I added the code. I did a save. Let's quickly open it up with a terminal. We'll do a terraform init. So this will download the module and it will also install the necessary provider plugins for us. Once this is done, if you directly do a Terraform plan you see it states one to add and when you do a Terraform apply, the infrastructure resource will be created for us. Now when you have explored this kind of a workflow, sometimes it is assumed by the students that all of the modules will have the same behavior. For example, let's say you want to create a Kubernetes cluster in such case here. This is a Kubernetes module which creates a EKS resource in AWS. Again you see we have a similar kind of a code structure to use this module. So students might assume that just by calling the EC2 module, the entire EC2 instance got created for us. Similarly, just by calling the X module here by copy pasting the code, the entire X cluster will be created for us. However, this is not always the case. So looking into the second module of X, if you directly call the module and then you do a terraform init and apply, it will throw an error. Something similar to this, where you have added the X module related code in your TF file. You try to do a apply or a plan. It will immediately throw an error primarily because it requires more details of your environment. Let's quickly explore this as well. So I'll copy the code here. Let's replace the code here again. I'll be adding the code in our GitHub page in case if you would like to try it out as well, let's clear the screen. We'll do a terraform init. So this time it is downloading the x module and the required plugins required for the cluster. All right. Once this is done, if you do a Terraform plan, let's try it out this time. Immediately. You see, it gave an error. One more thing that you would like to see that plan 21 to add. So you see it is creating so many different resources. If you look here, so many different resources are required to create a ECS cluster and module is doing everything for you. However, module also sometimes requires some input that you will have to feed in. So if you look into the error, what exactly it is showing, it is showing subnet IDs. Now generally in AWS what happens is now again, you don't need to know AWS in detail, but I am just giving you a glance. Generally what happens is as part of the network, there are subnetworks that are created and each subnetwork here has a different subnet ID now depending upon the AWS account. So for example I have a specific subnet ID here. This does not mean you will also have a subnet ID with the exact same ID here. You might have a different subnet ID, and this is the reason why whenever you are creating some resources which requires a specific subnet ID, you cannot add it directly as part of your module. So what module is saying is it needs a subnet IDs to be defined as part of the code. Because these IDs are different across different AWS environment. So let's try to add a few subnet IDs here. Let's copy one more and I'll add it here. All right. So I'll save this. So now this specific information has been filled. Now when you try to do a Terraform plan let's see if we get a same error. So this time the subnet IDs error went away. So now what is the error. It is asking the name, so it requires you to specify a cluster name. Whatever name that you want to provide to a cluster needs to be specified. So let's also try it out. I'll say cluster underscore name is equal to test. All right I'll save this. Let's clear the screen again. This time let's see if it works or not. This time you see there are no errors. And it is trying to create 24 different resources. Now again don't create the ECS cluster. It is quite expensive however, at a high level. Overview. The aim of today's video was to understand that it is not necessary that just by calling the module, the entire resource will be created. Depending upon the module that you are using, there are certain information. There are certain customization that will be required from your side as well. However, similar to what we see majority of things, you see total of 24 resources. All of these things are already added as part of the of module. Some things you'll have to add based on what module requires for your environment. Now it can also happen that currently you see this is the module version. Maybe after a year, the EC2 instance module might also require some data like the EC2 instance name. So again, it all depends upon the version. The current version 5.6.1 does not require any details. You can directly do apply and the EC2 instance will be created for you. Now, the last important pointer for today's video is that depending upon the module that you are using, the structure can be a little different as well. All right. So for example if we look into the IAM module here. So you see you have the IAM module under the modules here you see there are multiple sub folders IAM account IAM assumerole and so on. This is because IAM has many set of sub features. For example if I explore the IAM service in AWS. You see there are multiple set of Subfeatures that are available here. So depending upon what subfeatures that you require, the module will also have its own set of structure. For example, if we explore the IAM module in AWS. So this is the IAM module. Now if you directly copy paste this module. In fact let's try this out I'll just remove the earlier code I'll save this. Let's quickly do a Terraform init and let's do a Terraform plan. All right. Now immediately you see it states no change. Your infrastructure matches the configuration. So generally whenever you call the IAM module here the question that comes is what exactly the module will do. Will it create a group. Will it create a user. Will it create a role. And so on. So this is the question that comes in and the answer to this is in the documentation. Now, if you explore the documentation associated with the IEA module again here, you see everything is provided with great clarity here. Now if you see inside this as well, you have a folder of modules. Now if you explore EC2 let's open the source code. Now within here there is no module sub folder. Everything is defined here. You see if there is a main.tf file and the entire code is mentioned here itself. However, for the IAM module you don't have the Main.tf here, primarily because as we know that there are so many sub features. So inside the modules folder there are various sub folders related to a wide variety of features. For example there is a sub folder for IAM user. So if I open this up inside this sub folder there is a Main.tf which will allow us to create the IAM user and necessary configuration options. All right. So I hope with this you understood that depending upon the modules that you use, the structure can be different here. So the important learning for today's video is that always read the documentation associated with the module to understand the structure, the important information and also what is expected from you for creating the resource. For example, if we explore the IAM module here, you see that there are multiple example usage. If you want to create a IAM account a assume role, multiple set of options are available in here and through here. It becomes much more simpler because there are so many features and example is provided for all of them based on what module is supporting. Great. So that's a very high level overview about some of the important pointers that you have to keep a note of while using the modules. And with this we'll conclude today's video.