Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore on how we can choose a right Terraform module for our requirement. Now, one thing that we need to understand is that when you explore the Terraform registry, which contains so many modules, you have to keep a note that for a specific infrastructure object, it can be EC2 instance, IAM, etc. there can be multiple different modules that would be available from different individual contributors. For example, if you search in Terraform registry associated with modules for EC2, you will notice that there are so many different modules that are available for EC2. So in fact, let's also quickly explore this now within the Terraform registry. When we browse for the modules, let's search for EC2. Over here we'll search for modules and you see associated with EC2. There are so many modules that are available. You see you have more than 13 pages worth of modules that are currently available over here. So let's say that you want to create an EC2 instance through a module. Now the question that comes is, since there are 13 pages of modules that are available in the Terraform registry, which is the module that you should choose. And the answer to that is something that we will be discussing in today's video. Now, the first part that you need to check before you decide a specific module is the total downloads. Now when you explore the module here, for example, if you look into this specific module on the right hand side in the registry, you will also see the total number of downloads. So for this specific module of EC2 downloads over time is 14.4 million. So this is quite good since so many individuals and organizations are downloading this specific module. This can be a good indication that the specific module might be well maintained. So for example, in fact let's go to the page number one associated with the EC2. You will notice the first module here. It has 13.8 k. Then you have 5.3 k, 4.8 k and so on. So this is something that you should be checking. Now if you go to page number two this specific module which is terraform hyphen hyphen modules slash EC2 instance. This is 14.4 million. So this is something that is an early indication that this might be a write module for your choice. All right. So this is the first thing that you need to check. The second part that you should check is the GitHub page associated with the module. This is very important as GitHub page can reveal a lot of information related to the contributors, reported issues and various important information. Let's also try it out now. For example, let's take 2 or 3 examples here. The first example is this one that we were discussing. Then we'll take few more examples here. Any random examples? Just for simplicity. Now all of these modules will have a source code in GitHub, something similar to what you see. So let's open up the GitHub page. And within here you see the commit was made four years back and there are no contributors to this. Looking into the second module that had appeared, the downloads over time is over 2000. Now if you open up the source code again, the comments were made two years before and there does not seem to be much contributors to this repo as well. Coming to the next AWS EC2 module that we were discussing, if you open up the source code for this, if you go a bit down, you see contributors are 42. So not a single individual is maintaining. But there are so many contributors who are committing code to keep this module updated. So this is one of the good things that you should be watching out for. The next thing that we were discussing that you should check in a GitHub page is the reported issues. So for a specific module, how many issues are currently reported and how many of them are resolved. So if you look into the issues you see there are three reported issues that are open and 187 issues are closed. So again, this is a good indication that many of the issues are getting resolved by the contributors and there are minimal number of open issues here. Now, the third important part that you have to keep a note of, again, this is my personal suggestion, is that you should avoid modules that are maintained by a single contributor. Now generally what happens is that let's say that a contributor has created a EC2 module, which is working perfectly fine now. But what about the later stage? After one year there might be some changes in the provider plugins, some arguments, and so on. So will the single contributor go ahead and update the module in a timely manner, or he might not update the module at all. So regular updates to the module looking into the issues. Resolving the issues are some of the important areas for public modules. And this is the reason why individual contributor. If a module is maintained by only a single contributor, this is something that you should avoid. For example, this specific module that we were discussing, this module has so many contributors. So this is one of the good pointers here. The next part that you need to check is the module documentation. Generally the modules that are well maintained also has good amount of documentation which contains the overview, usage, instruction and other examples as well. So for example this Terraform AWS modules GitHub page that we were looking for, you see the usage instruction. The examples are very well shown. You also have various other details related to modules. So this is what we are discussing here. So this is a classic example of a well maintained module. Now if you explore other modules GitHub page you see the Readme page does not have enough information compared to the first module that we were discussing. So again, from analyzing the module documentation, you will be able to quickly identify whether the module is well maintained or not. The next pointer that you need to check is the version history of the module. This again is a very important a module that is well maintained and regularly updated will have a decent amount of version history, primarily because there will be frequent updates here, for example. In fact, let's go to the page two this specific module here. And also let's open up one more. So if you look into the version history of this, in fact let's do a show. All you see there are so many versions here. So from here we can conclude that this specific module is regularly updated. Now, if you look into one more module here, if you look into the version history, you only have version 1.0.0. So this module is not updated regularly. The next part to monitor is you can also analyze the code that is written as part of the module. Generally well maintained module will have a clean well structured code and this is a good sign of using that module. Now for example, one of the modules that we were discussing, if you look into the Main.tf it looks something similar to this. Now if you look into the main.tf of this specific module that we were discussing, let's explore this. So this is how the module really looks like. So this is a very well maintained module and the code is professionally written. So again this is a good sign that this is the module that you should be using. The next area that you can check is the overall community feedback again in the GitHub page, you will be able to quickly identify this so you can look into the number of stars and the number of folks on the GitHub page. And this in turn indicates the overall popularity and the community interest. So even in this screenshot you see the fork and the stars. Now, in fact, let me also quickly show you let's go back to the module here. You see you have a fork and you have a star. Now if you explore other ones, you see fork is one, star is zero. So this also can give you an indication whether you should be using the module or not. The next pointer is that you can also search for modules that are maintained by the HashiCorp partner. So these are some of the trusted modules that you can explore. So in the screenshot here you see this is the project factory for the Google Cloud. And you have a batch of partner. So this is the one that clearly indicates that it is being maintained by the HashiCorp partner. So again, within the registry page, if you browse for modules, there is a specific option related to the filters in which you can search for the modules that are being maintained by the HashiCorp partners. So these are the modules. And again within here you can search for the modules for a specific provider. So this is one thing that you have to keep a note of. Generally when you discuss about AWS, one of the modules that I prefer, and I have seen organizations using is the one that are part of the Terraform AWS modules. Now here you see that the partner tag is not there. In fact, let me also quickly show you. So if you open up any random module that is being maintained by the partner, let's open this up. You'll typically see the partner badge over here. And again there are multiple versions. And if you look into the source code you will see that the source code base GitHub page is very well maintained. maintain you have a good amount of documentation, good amount of examples, and the code is also it should be quite professional and well written. Now generally when we discuss about AWS you have a Terraform AWS modules. So these are generally quite well maintained and very popular when it comes to AWS. So you have 56 modules for wide variety of objects. So in fact let me quickly open up one among them. So within here in fact if you go to the root page here of Terraform AWS modules, these are the modules that are available. And most of them you will see they are quite popular in the industry. For example, the ECS is also very popular along with others. So it is not always that the modules that are written by HashiCorp partner are the best. You also have various other modules that are very popular in the industry, and you should be using them as well. Now, before we conclude, there are some important pointers that you have to keep a note of. Again, this is very important from security perspective. The first pointer here states that you should avoid directly trying any random Terraform module that is not actively maintained and looks shady. So many times what happens. We have seen that there are so many modules available for a specific service. So if you try out some random module and you have not read the source code, the source code might have some shady things. So this is the reason why you should avoid using the random modules. The source code can also have a malicious code which can send the information about your environment to the attacker. And this is the reason why don't use any random modules. Make sure that you use trusted module and in case if you do not have an option and you have to use a random module that is written, always read the source code. Now the question that comes is which modules does the organization uses? So you have hundreds to thousands of organizations that are actively working and using Terraform. So which. Modules do those organization makes use of? From what I have seen, majority of them, they maintain their own set of modules. This is first and a very important part. So initially to create the modules for the organization, they might fork a module from the Terraform registry and they'll modify it heavily based on the use case of the organization. So these set of modules that organization uses, they are not available in the public registry. They are available in the private registry in the organization itself for the developers to make use of. Now, in the later part of this course, we are going to discuss on how we can create and maintain our own set of modules for the organization as well, so that our understanding about module is crystal clear. So these are some of the very important pointers that you have to keep in mind before you choose a module for your projects. And with this we'll conclude today's video.