Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we'll go ahead and we'll start with a journey of creating our own set of modules. Now in many of the organization, the instruction is that you should not be dependent on the public set of modules that are available in the Terraform registry, because they'll go ahead and update and maintain the modules based on the timeline that they prefer. Many a times organizations have very niche requirements related to how modules are designed, and what are the aspects that are available for the developers to modify. So in such cases, you should be able to create your own set of modules for the organization. Now in today's video, we'll go ahead and look into the part one of this specific project, which is to create the base module structure. In the upcoming videos, we'll go ahead and we'll also explore the other areas for creating a specific module. Now before you go ahead and create a module, the first very important part is to design the base structure so the base structure can have a following pattern. Now the folder which is the base folder will have a sub folder of modules. And inside this modules module's subfolder, you will have one more subfolder for each module that are available. So for example, it would look something similar to this. So first you will have a modules folder which is the point number one. And inside the modules folder you will have more subfolders like EC2 sub folder, IAM subfolder, VPC sub folder and S3 sub folder depending upon the modules that you are writing. So this is the base structure. Now the question that comes is what is inside each of the sub folder that we have created. Now each sub folder will contain the actual module Terraform code that other projects can reference from. So for example, let's say that under the modules folder you have the EC2 sub folder. So what will this EC2 sub folder have. It will have the actual module code over here. Which other team members or other developers can reference from, similar to how we were referencing module from the GitHub through the Terraform registry page, the next pointer is calling the module. Now. Again, an organization can have multiple set of teams, so each team can call various set of modules that are available in the modules folder based on the team's requirement. For example, let's say that you have a modules folder with four different modules EC2, VPC, SG, and IEM, and your organization has four different teams. So it can happen that team two wants to create some IAM related resource, so they'll make a reference to the IAM module. Similarly, team two wants to create some security group. So they'll make a reference to the security group module and so on. Now as part of today's video we'll go ahead and we'll create the base structure in our workstation. Now the base structure looks something similar to this where you will have a modules folder and you will have a teams folder. Now inside the modules folder you will have multiple sub folders associated with each module, for example EC2 module, SG module and so on. And in the teams folder you will have two teams, which is team A and team B, and each team will reference to its own set of modules. So this is the overall structure. Let's go ahead and quickly try it out. Now for today's video I have created one folder called as KP Labs Terraform modules, where our entire base structure will be created. Now first inside this will create one folder called as modules. We will create one more folder called as teams. All right. Now inside the modules let's create one more sub folder of EC2, one more sub folder of security group. And inside teams we'll create a sub folder of team A and the sub folder of team B. Now at a later stage, what we want is this EC2 sub folder that we had created would have the EC2 related module. And the team A will reference to this specific module to create the infrastructure. So this is what we are planning now. How we can call the EC2 module from team A is something that we are going to discuss in the practical video, after our concept related to the calling of modules is clear, which we are going to discuss in the upcoming videos. So that's a high level overview about the base module structure. And with this we will conclude today's video.