Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video, we had created the base module structure for our own module. And in today's video we are going to go ahead and we are going to create our first module. And the module will be based on EC2. Now the name of the module might create a confusion that it is some complex code that you will have to write, but it is not. So the ordinary code that you write to create a EC2 instance is the code that is also part of the modules folder. Nothing complex or nothing extra is present here. Now for our today's practical, I have a very simple code over here, which creates a EC2 instance based on the US East one region, and we also have the Ami that is hard coded. So we are going to copy this code. I have also added this code as part of our GitHub page, which you can reference to now within our Copy Labs Terraform modules directory, we had created two sub folders of modules and teams. First we are working with modules. So I'll go to modules. I'll go to EC2 and within here I'll create a new file. Let's just call it as main.tf. All right. And I'll paste the contents of our EC2 instance related resource over here, and I'll save the change. So this is how the module looks like which only contains one file of Main.tf. Now the question that comes is hey, can the module contain such a small code? And the answer to that is yes, definitely. Depending upon the requirement, the code that you add as part of the module will change. Now it can be a 3 or 4 lines of code. It can also be a 100 lines of code and so on. However, the main important pointer that needs to be noted is that whatever code that is part of the modules folder should be able to be referenced by various teams here. So for example, team A should be able to reference to the code that is part of the module folder of EC2 without having to write the resource of AWS, underscore instance, and so on. Now if you look into a professionally written module associated with a EC2 instance, again there are multiple files which contains examples, license, and so on. One of the file that you will see is main.tf something similar to what we have created. Now in here you will see the number of line. The number of code base is quite big, so around 605 lines are there. Now the question that comes is why so much difference in the module that we have written and the module that is part of this specific repository. Now one thing that needs to be noted is that the publicly hosted modules that are well written typically also contains all of the options that are required to create a EC2 instance. For example, you see, to create a EC2 instance, there might be a lot of arguments that you might have to set, for example tags. Then if you go down you have subnets, source destination, check the user database 64 and so on. So so many options are available over here. Now do we need these options in our organization. If so then you can add it as part of your module. If you do not require it then there is no need to add it and keep the overall code base smaller. However, the code that you will see in a publicly written module. These can be referenced by hundreds of organizations with wide variety of use cases. And this is the reason why the module also contains the options that are available to create a resource, for example. In fact, let's do one thing. Let's look into this specific one. Let's say maintenance underscore options. So this is a specific argument now within here underscore options. So you see you also have a code related to this. So the publicly hosted professional modules will have all of the options that are available for a specific resource so that none of the organization gets restricted. However, the module that we write for our organization will only have the options that we need for the use cases required for the project. And this is the reason why the code base generally for the modules that organization has is much more lesser when compared to the publicly hosted, professionally written modules. Great. So this is one part in the next part. Our aim is to go ahead and call the module that we had written for EC2 from the teams folder over here, so that we understand on how the referencing happens. So that's a high level overview. And with this we will conclude today's video.