Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about module sources. And we are also going to look into how we can reference to a specific module. Now one important part that we need to keep a note of is that a source code for a specific module can be present in a wide variety of locations, so these locations typically can include a GitHub page. This is very common for the modules that we have seen as part of the Terraform registry. Then you can also reference through the HTTP URLs. You can have modules as part of the S3 buckets. You have modules as part of Terraform registry, something that we have seen. You can also have modules as part of your local workstation or your local laptop. And these are the local path here. Now the question that comes is how we can make a reference to a specific module. So in order to do that you need to make use of the module block. This is very important. And inside the module block there must be a source argument that contains the location to the referenced module. Very important part to remember. If you look into this specific example, you have a module block. The name is EC2, and then you have the source and the exact path where the module is present. Now, as we have learned in the earlier slide, there are a wide variety of sources where the modules can be present like S3 bucket, GitHub, Bitbucket and so on. Now, depending upon where exactly the module is present, the way in which you can call them as part of the source argument will also differ a little bit. However, the module block and the source block is something that remains to be static. So let's take few example to understand on how module can be referenced. So let's say that you have created a module in your local workstation itself. So this is part of local path. So in here you have a requirement to reference to the module that is available in the local file system itself. So in such case you can use a approach similar to this. So the module and the source remains to be the same. Then you have a dot dot slash and you reference to the path where the module source code is present. All right. So this is one example of local path. Then let's take an example number two related to a generic repository based on git. So in such case the overall structure would look something similar to this again module. And the source remains to be the same. Just the way in which you can reference to it differs a bit. Now the question that comes is since modules can be stored in a wide variety of location local path, git, Bitbucket, S3 bucket and so on, how do we know what is the format that you need to add as part of the source block? And the answer to this is documentation. Now if you look into the documentation associated with the module sources here, as we were discussing, there are a wide variety of module sources that are supported. Local path. The Terraform registry. GitHub, Bitbucket, HTTP URLs, and so on. Now for each of the options over here, the documentation contains a clear approach on how you can reference to the module. So local path looks something similar to this. Terraform registry has a specific format. Then if you go a bit down, if a module is based on GitHub, then you can reference to something similar to this. Again Bitbucket has an approach here. Generic git repository also has an approach. Then you have if you go a bit down then you have the classic HTTP URLs. Again some of the organization makes use of this approach as well. So all of these details can be found as part of the documentation. Here again you see if you are referencing to a module that is part of S3 bucket, then you will need to have this which is S3 colon colon. This is very important. And the structure changes again depending upon what is the exact source from which you are calling the module from. So in today's video, we are going to take a very simple example. Now I have created a GitHub repository called as sample KP labs Terraform EC2 module. So this contains a Main.tf a very simple file, nothing much complex. And we are going to look into how we can reference to this from our local workstation. So for today's practical we are back to our KP Labs Terraform folder which contains no files. So within here let's go ahead and quickly open this up with Visual Studio Code. And I'll just call it as modules.tf. All right. Now at this stage we know that this specific module source code is present in GitHub. So now you can go ahead and search the documentation related to GitHub here. And you will get the exact syntax. So I'll copy this and let's add it over here. So the overall approach is simple. You have github.com followed by the exact path. So this specific module again I have added the appropriate links in our GitHub page itself so that you can reference to it. It looks something similar to this. You have github.com Zalora followed by the module here. So let's copy this and you can add it over here. And you can save the change. You can maybe change the name to EC2. All right I'll save it now from our CP Labs Terraform folder I'll open up the terminal. Let's go ahead and do a terraform init. At this stage immediately we got an error which states error downloading. No source URL was returned. Now whenever you get an error, you can always reference to the exact format that the module requires based on the source. Now, if you look into the GitHub source, the source states that you have to start from github.com and within here we have added the https, which is not really required. I'll remove this and I'll save the change. All right. Once. Then let's go ahead and do a terraform init. So this time you see it is working perfectly. It is installing the AWS provider plugin. And the initialization has also completed. So when I do a Terraform plan, you should be able to see that the EC2 instance creation should be planned as expected based on the code that is written as part of the module. All right. So I hope with this at an overview, you got the idea that depending upon the source, the way in which you can call the module also changes. Overall, things are much more simpler and the proper examples are already available as part of the developer documentation of Terraform. Now, before we conclude, one more important pointer that we need to keep a note of is associated with a module version. Now a specific module can have multiple versions as well. And if required you can reference to a specific version of a module with a version block. So this is one thing that you also need to remember from the exam perspective. For example, you have a module of X, you have a source block over here. And you also have the version block something similar to this. So this version block is very important. Specifically when a module has different set of versions that are available. So let's also quickly explore this. So this is a sample x module here. You see as expected there are so many versions that are available. Now let's say that you want to deploy based on version 18 .8.0. So as soon as you click here you see in this specific code the version argument changed to 18 .8.0. So whatever code was written for this specific version, that specific code will be pulled. The latest code will not be pulled. All right. So this is the benefit of the version block. So these are some of the important pointers related to the module sources. And with this we'll conclude today's video.