Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now, in the process of creating our own module, we had first created the base module structure. Then we had created our first EC2 module a very simple module code. The next step that we have to figure out is how a team member can reference to this specific module. Now, since the module code and the team folder code is in the same workstation, we have to now identify which of the module sources can be used so that we can call that specific module. Will we be able to use the GitHub module source or HTTP URL source or S3 bucket source and so on. Now here you will have to do a little bit of reading in case if you are new. But the answer to this is the local path. So in the example code here in the source you have to specify the folder where your module is present. And it also says that the local path must begin with dot slash or dot dot slash. So in case if you are not very familiar with Linux, this is something that might create a little confusion because here in the source also it states dot slash console. So first let's explore what this is now. Currently I am in the CPP Labs Terraform modules folder. And within here we have modules. We have teams inside team. We have team A. And in fact let's quickly open this with our Visual Studio Code. Let's go ahead and create a file called as module.tf. And within here we'll copy this base code and we'll add it over here. You can also write it from scratch in case if you'd like. So let's call it as EC2 module. And the source path is basically this path should reference to this specific EC2 folder. This is the primary aim now generally from the CLI. Let's open up the terminal. Now if I do a CD dot dot so what this will do it will go one directory back. So if I run this command earlier we were in teams A. Now we are in teams. Let me also quickly show you. So currently we are in teams a so dot dot. What happened is we went back one directory which is teams. So currently we are here. Now if I do a CD dot dot yet again this time we are in the KP labs Terraform modules. One directory back. We are here. So this dot and this dot dot slash allows you to navigate to the appropriate folder where your module is present. So now if we mention a dot dot slash. So now from the A folder let's go back. So currently the module.tf is present here. So dot dot slash from a folder we went to teams folder. Now teams folder does not have the module code. So what we want we will do dot dot slash once again. So now from teams folder we are in the KP Labs Terraform modules folder. Now within here we have a folder of modules. So you will specify modules. Then let's go here. Then we have a module of EC2. We'll specify EC2 here. Now I'll save the change. So now let's go back to the teams. A I'll open this up with a terminal. And here I'll do a terraform init rthy. And this time you see we did not get an error. It is initializing the module of EC2 and it is installing the HashiCorp AWS provider plugin. And the initialization has been successful. Now if I do a Terraform plan, it should go ahead and show us the plan to create one EC2 instance. So here you see it is creating one EC2 instance based on T2 micro and the Ami that is defined as part of the module itself. All right. So I hope with this you understood on how we can make a reference to a module based on the local path. Now similarly, if team B wants to reference to a security group module, the structure will remain to be quite similar to what we were discussing in today's video.