Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore the improvements that we can make as part of our custom module code. Now at this stage we have created a very simple module and we have looked into how a module is created. That is the first step. We have looked into how a developer can call the module to create their own infrastructure. So this part of module workflow is something that was important at the first stage. Now once we understand the overall module workflow, the next important part is that we need to analyze the shortcomings in the module code and what are the improvements that we can make in order to write a professional level module code is something that will start with today's video. Now, one of the major improvements that you have to explore specifically whenever you are working with a module code is the hard coded values. This is very important now in the module code that we had written. If you see we have many of the hard coded values as part of the code. Now what are the hard coded values here like Ami, instance type and so on. So in case if a developer is calling this module, he will have to stick with the same values. He will not be able to override it. And this is the primary challenge. All right. And this is what is part of the third pointer here. Now discussing what are the hard coded values here. The first one is the region. The second one is the army. And the third one is the instance type here. So in case if a developer wants a different Ami or a different instance type, he will not be able to override it. So let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and quickly explore this part before we look into another challenge. So going back to our AP Labs Terraform modules folder, let's go ahead and quickly open up the module.tf that we had created for team A. Now at this stage the code is very simple. All it does is it calls the module and the infrastructure gets created. And when you explore the module code, this is how it looks like. And as we are discussing these are the hard coded values here. So what this would mean. Let's open up the terminal quickly. Whenever you do a Terraform plan let's go ahead and quickly explore this. If you see the Army is the one that is hard coded, the instance type is the one that is hard coded in the module. So let's say that developer does not want this instance type. The application that developer wants to run requires a bigger instance type maybe eight GB Ram, 16 GB Ram, and so on. So in such case, if a developer tries to override the instance type value, let's try it out to something like T2 dot large. All right let's save this. And now when you do a Terraform plan what does it state. It states that an argument name instance type is not expected here. All right. So I hope with this you understood the challenge related to the hard coded values. Now, specifically, when we discuss about the public modules, which hundreds of thousands of users are going to use, hard coded values is a big no no because everyone will have a different configuration in the environment. And this is the reason why in the public specific modules, hard coded values is a big no no. In fact, even if you are writing modules for your organization, you should avoid using hard coded values. All right, so just for simplicity, I have also added what are the hard coded values. So during the revision it becomes much more simpler. The challenge number two is related to the provider improvements. Now as we were discussing in the module code that we had written, we had hard coded the provider and we had also hard coded the region of US East one. So this code can only run in the US East one region. Let's see if we are able to override this. Now let's do one thing. Let's go ahead and say provider of AWS. And within here I'll say region of AP South one, which is Mumbai. All right. Now initially it might look like the module code will be called. And whatever infrastructure that will be created, it will be created in the AP South one region. But if you look into the main module we had the US East one region. So which region will terraform choose or will it directly give an error because you have contradictory statements here. Let's explore this. So now when you do a Terraform plan here at this stage, one thing that we have noted is that error is not being shown by Terraform. So you have one to add. And this is the basic code. Now here it does not show you in which region the code is getting created. So it is still a little surprise that Terraform wants you to know only after the resource is created. So now, just for simplicity, again, you don't have to do it, but I'll just do an apply so that we understand the concept. When we do a Terraform apply with auto approve. You see the instance creation has started. Now, one thing that we need to note is that each region has a different Ami. So US east one is associated with this Ami id. So that would mean that a different region like Mumbai will not have an operating system with the same Ami ID the ami ID will differ. Now, the reason why the EC2 instance creation has started with this specific Ami id is because the instance is getting created in the US East one region. If it had been created in the AP South one region immediately, it would show an error stating the Ami does not exist or am I not found? All right, so at this stage the creation has been completed. And in fact, if you open up the TF state file. It will also show you the region. Let's quickly explore that. So if you look into the Arn here, you see us East one now verifying it from the EC2 dashboard associated with the North Virginia region, which has the region code of US East one. If you look into the instances running, you see this is the instance ID it ends with F2E and the same. You will be able to verify. Here you have the F2E. So this is the EC2 instance that got created through Terraform. Now to avoid any unexpected charges we'll go ahead and immediately terminate the instance. All right. So I hope with this you understood the challenge. Number two related to the provider hard coding as we have discussed. Avoid hard coding the region as part of the module code as much as possible. And instead what you should be doing you should be adding a required provider block with a version constraint for the module to work, so it would look something similar to this. So this is your base code again. You'll have to make it a non hard coded version. And you have to add a required provider block where you can specify this specific module code whatever code that module has. It works with which version of the AWS provider plugin. So here we have seen greater than or equal to 5.5. So it can happen that a specific code does not work with a specific version of AWS provider plugin. So all of those details it is recommended to add as part of the module code, so that the user who is calling the module will not get any error when trying to run it. Great. So these are the two major areas where we have to make improvement in our custom module code. We'll be doing it in the upcoming videos post, which we'll be discussing about modules in more detail. So with this we'll conclude today's video.