Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about variables in Terraform modules. At this stage, we have already discussed that as much as possible. You should avoid hardcoding the values as part of your module code, because the users who will be calling your module, they will not be able to override it. So this will make your module less flexible. So what is the way in which we can convert the hard coded values to make the module much more flexible. And the approach is using the variables. So here you have the hard coded values. You convert it to the variables here. So on the left hand side this is the bad approach. And on the right hand side this is the good approach. So whenever you are making use of variables the users will be able to override it to the one that is suitable for their environments. So similar to what we were discussing. If this is the main module where you have added the variables, then whatever teams that are calling your module, they will be able to override it. For example, the team one requires the instance type to be t two dot micro, so they can add it as part of their code, and the instance type that will be created will be t two micro. And in a similar way, if the team two wants the instance type to be MFI dot large. If you are making use of variables as part of your module code, this kind of an approach is possible. And this is the reason why, if you look into any professionally written EC2 module as part of registry or any other source you will see they extensively make use of variables. For example, instance type is variable, hibernation variable and everything that is possible. They will try to make it as variable. Let's also quickly explore this. So we are part of the EC2 instance module. Let's open up the Main.tf to see the code. Now here you see the resource of AWS instance. You see how many variables they are using. They are trying to make every argument as variable so that it can be overridden. And this is a good approach because this specific module thousands of users will be calling. So all of the users will have different set of requirements. And this is the reason why module needs to be designed in such way. Now. Is it always 100% that any module that we write for our organization needs to be variable? The answer is no. Again, it depends upon environment to environment and use case to use case basis. But as a best practice, if you want to make your module flexible, you can make the argument values to be variable here. So that's a very high level overview related to the solution of the hard coded values. Now again we will be discussing about the practical aspect in the next video. I just wanted two separate videos, one for the theoretical perspective to understand the potential solution. And second video will be the practical one. So with this we will conclude today's video.