Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to explore the practical aspect about the advantages of adding a variable in the module code. So we are going to improve our module code and we are going to add variable. And then we'll also see on how the team will be able to override the values here. So going back to our CPP Labs Terraform modules folder, let's quickly open this up with our Visual Studio Code. And within here under the EC2 module that we had created, this is the base code. We are going to remove the hard coded values here. So instead of Ami we'll say var dot ami and instead of instance type we'll say var dot instance underscore type. And again here in case if you'd like instead of region we'll say var dot region. All right I'll go ahead and I'll save this. Now apart from this what you can do since you have made it a variable, you can create a declaration related to the variable, something similar to this var dot ami. Now as soon as you have created it, you will see that the red mark under a specific variable went away. So currently here you have a red mark. So again whenever you see it, you will notice that this is some kind of improvement that you have to make. Similarly, let's say variable of instance type and a variable of region. All right. Now you can also add it as part of a different file which is recommended. But at this stage we are just keeping it simple. We just want to understand how the concept works. I'll save this now within the Terraform modules let's go to teams and within here let's quickly open up the terminal. Let's do a Terraform init once again just to verify. And let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. Now at this stage you see it is giving an error stating missing required arguments. What are the arguments that it needs. It is army instance type and region. So now within our teams a folder. Let's open up the modules.tf. So what it is expecting is the three values associated with the variables and within the code from which you are calling the module. Here, we have to now identify where exactly we can add the values associated with the variables. So first let's go ahead and remove the provider block of AP South, one that we had declared. Now within here you can say instance type is equal to t two dot micro RMI is equal to just a random RMI say one two, three and region equal to US East one. Or let's just say AP South one. All right. I'll go ahead and I'll save this. So now if I quickly do a Terraform plan. Let's verify if the values are getting overridden. Instance type is t two. Micro RMI is Ami one two, three. And the region that it will be created would be AP South one. You can just verify if the Army and the instance type values are appearing to be the same that you have added as part of your code. For example, if you just change it to t two dot large, let's save this. Let's do a Terraform plan. Just verify if it is t two dot large. All right. So I hope with this at a high level overview, you understood on how we can add variables as part of the modules. And with this we'll conclude today's video.