Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and improve our custom module code with the provider related improvements. At this stage, we have been hard coding the provider as part of the code, which is again not the best practice. Instead, you can make use of the required providers block. So let's go ahead and quickly explore this. Now within our main module source code associated with the EC2 module, we had hardcoded the provider block. This is something that we should avoid. So we'll go ahead and we'll remove it as part of today's video. Instead we have to make use of the required providers block. We have already discussed about this in the earlier set of videos. And you can copy this and you can add it as part of the module code. Now why is required provider block important and why is the provider block not recommended? The reason why is because again, if this specific code that you have written, it can happen that it works only with a very specific AWS provider plugins. It does not work with all of the provider plugins. And this is the reason why with whatever provider plugins your code is working with, you add it as part of the required providers. So whenever someone does a Terraform init, only that version of the provider plugins gets installed and user will not really get any other errors as well. So within here in the source you can just replace this with HashiCorp AWS. So this is the official AWS provider plugin. And the version you can replace this with whatever version the code is currently working with. So just to verify, when we had done a Terraform init, our code was working, we did not really get an error. So you can just verify what is the exact version of the provider plugins that got installed. So if you explore the log file, this is the version which is 5.51. Or one more thing that you can check is you can look into what is the provider plugin version that is available. So published three days ago, it is 5.52.0. So you can do something like this. You can say greater than or equal to 5.5. All right. Or in case if you like, you can be very specific with the version requirements that will also work. Again it all depends upon the requirement now from the team a, let's open up the TF file here. Now, since the region is something that we have removed the associated variable for, we'll go ahead and remove the variable of region from here. I'll save this. Let's also remove it from here I'll save this. And within the calling code here you can specify the region in case if you would like I'll say region of say AP South one. You can save it. Now from the code you can do a Terraform plan. And at this stage it is showing one to add. But it is also showing us a warning which states that the provider of AWS is implicitly specified, but it is listed in the required providers as my cloud. So what? You can do a small mistake here. You can change this. My cloud to AWS. You'll save this. Let's clear the screen. We'll do a Terraform plan and hopefully that warning should go away. And yes it has. It is showing one to add. So that's the overall practical related on how we can add the provider related improvements as part of our code. And with this we'll conclude today's video.