Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about module outputs. Now generally in organization if you are working with modules you will see that you will have multiple set of modules for wide variety of services that are being actively being used in your organization. And in such cases you will have multiple set of projects as well. Now when you have multiple set of services, multiple set of projects, the cross project collaboration is something that is quite important and regularly used. And in such cases the module outputs concept is very important. Now the overall concept of module output is very similar to the output values videos that we were discussing in the earlier section of the course. So at a very high level overview whenever you have multiple projects. So in the left hand side screenshot you have project A and project B. So in project A you have the output values that has been defined by the output block and whatever value is present. This value can be fetched by the Terraform code that is part of a different project itself here, so I hope you remember this specific concept. In case if you do not remember, I will recommend to go ahead and revise the concept of output values that we were discussing earlier. Because the module output is very similar, it's just that it is used as part of modules instead of the direct Terraform code that we used to write earlier. Now, before we go ahead and discuss about the module outputs, it is important for us to understand the challenge. The challenge is you have a simple code over here, which is going to be used as part of the module. And here you are calling the module using the module block. This part is very simple to understand. Now as part of this root module here, apart from calling the module through the source argument, you also have one more resource block of elastic IP. And within here there is an argument of instance that uses a specific convention of module.ec 2.instance.id. So basically whatever elastic IP that gets created, to whom the elastic IP must be attached to. It must be attached to the EC2 instance that is created through the module. So when you have this kind of an approach, it will not directly work. So in order to overcome this, you make use of output values even as part of the module. So a very similar approach here where on the right hand side you are calling the module. And on the left hand side this time, apart from the main code, you have also included the output value here. So once you have done that, this specific code block will work perfectly well. And adding the output value is quite important. Specifically when there is a cross project collaboration that is being actively used. So let's do one thing. Let's jump to the practical to understand the overall concept. Now for today's practical again we have a very simple code of modules and teams. Now if you look into modules, our EC2 module, we have a very simple code which creates a EC2 instance. Nothing complicated is being been added here now in the teams code over here, if you look into the TF file, you have a module block of EC2 which is calling our EC2 module. So this will go ahead and create a EC2 instance for us. This is the first part. Second part is we have a elastic IP that is also being created. Now what we want is whatever elastic IP that is being created. It should be attached to the EC2 instance that is being created through the module. All right. Now before we proceed further, I'll just show you this manually on how this happens through a manually created infrastructure so that there is no confusion. So what we are trying to do first we are trying to create a EC2 instance through a module. So let's go ahead and quickly do it manually. I'll just launch an instance. This is the first part. If I refresh here, we see that we have one EC2 instance that has been created. So this is what this block is doing. Second block is the elastic IP address. So now what we want this EC2 instance should have a public IP address that is static. So now what we are going we are going to elastic IP. We are creating a new elastic IP here. And this is the new static elastic IP that got created. So this is what this two code block is doing. Now what we want is what we will do with this static elastic IP. If it is not attached to any EC2 instance it does not have a value and you will be charged as well unnecessarily. So what we want that this EC2 instance that got created should have this elastic IP. All right. So if I'll quickly associate this elastic IP let's quickly do that. So we associate this elastic IP with the EC2 instance. And now if you see this elastic IP address Cidr block ends with 136 If I refresh, you will see the public IP also ends with 136 here. So this is what we are trying to do. However, if you look into this block, although it will create a EC2 and a elastic IP, it is not associating this elastic IP with the EC2 instance. And specifically for this use case, AWS underscore IP has an instance block which allows us to do that. In fact, let's quickly explore that. So there is an instance block where we can specify the instance id which is nothing but the attribute associated with the instance. So just to revise whenever you create a elastic IP. Whenever you associate it you associate. Here you see you have an instance ID. So in a similar way you have the instance argument here. So let's try it out. So I have an instance argument here. And now since the infrastructure is not yet created how do you create that dependency here. So this is where output values generally are useful. So what you will generally do you will say module dot EC2. Because whatever EC2 instance is created it has been created through the module. So you have module dot EC2 dot the attribute where the instance id is stored. So if you look into the resource of AWS underscore instance you can go to the attributes section. So this is the attribute reference. And then you will have to find where exactly the instance ID gets stored. So let's go a bit up. So if you go a bit up let's try to find. So you see you have an attribute of ID which is the ID of the instance. So this is what we want. So you might try to do something like this. All right. So if you try this let's see if it works or not. So within the teams a folder. Let's go ahead and quickly open up the terminal here. Let's do a Terraform validate. And immediately you see we got an error stating that this object does not have an attribute named ID. So this is what we were discussing in this specific slide where if you do not have an output value as part of the module, then the cross resource configuration becomes difficult, specifically when module is involved. So in order to overcome it you can make use of output here. So now what you can do within the module, whatever module that you have you can create an output here. Let's quickly do that. Let's just call it as instance ID. And the value here would be the AWS underscore instance dot my EC2 dot the attribute where the instance id is stored here. In this case it is id. All right I'll save this. Now let's do a Terraform validate. Again this is showing an error. So what you need to do the output value here is instance underscore id. So here what you can do. You can change it to instance underscore ID and you can save the change. Let's clear the screen here and let's do a Terraform validate to verify. This time it is success. Now in order to ensure that everything is working end to end, we'll go ahead and also do a Terraform apply with auto approve. Just let's verify this. So EC2 instance is created. The second one is the IP. So let's go back to the console here. Let's verify you see this specific EC2 instance that does not have a name. This is the one that got created through Terraform. And the IP address that it has received is 164.21. This is the same IP which you should see in the elastic IP, which is 164.21. And from here we can finally conclude that our module outputs are working. Now again, if you quickly notice generally when we were discussing about output values, we used to directly reference it in a way something similar to this, like AWS EIP dot B dot public underscore IP, primarily because both of these are part of the same code. However, in module the approach is a little different here where you specify module dot module name dot output name. Now again the output values will remain to be the same. But if you have one more resource as part of your route module, then you will call it through this specific approach module dot module name dot output name. All right. So I hope this specific topic has made sense. Now again before we conclude this video, I hope you might have heard some background noise. Actually it is raining and it is raining after quite a while. So generally when it rains, most of the people and animals around the area they go inside. But this time that is not the case. When it's raining, people are actually going out because it has been a very rough summer, I would say. And in fact, I might also quickly go out because it's raining. So with this, we'll quickly conclude this video and I'll see you in the next video.