Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about two important terminologies which are root module and child modules. Now it is important for you to remember these terminologies because we have seen that even in exams, HashiCorp might test you against these two very specific ones. So let's go ahead and understand both of them. The first one is the root module. Again this is very simple. Root module resides in your main Terraform working directory. And it is the entry point for your infrastructure definition. So the place where you are calling some other module for example here you have a source and you are calling a EC2 module. So this specific code block is referred to as the root module. And it is the main working directory of your Terraform configuration. All right. Very simple point to understand but an important terminology to remember as well. Now the second one is the child module. And child module is the module that has been called by another module. So for example we were discussing about the root module where in the source argument we are calling one more module called as the EC2 module. So this module which is being called is referred to as the child module. So here if you see this specific module where the actual code of the EC2 related module lies is referred to as the child module. So root module can go ahead and call a child module to create a specific infrastructure or for any other requirements as well. So in our lives Terraform modules folder where we have been experimenting with various modules and module related features, let's quickly open this up with a Visual Studio Code. Now if you see in the modules folder here, you have multiple modules like EC2 module, SG module. In fact, let's also explore from File Explorer it becomes much more easier to view. So in the modules you have EC2 module, SG module and so on. So these are all the child modules here. So going back to Visual Studio Code, all of the code that you add here are the child modules and the code from which you are calling another module. These are also referred to as the root module. So this is the entry point to your entire Terraform configuration from where things are defined for the infrastructure creation to happen. All right. So I hope with this you understood these two important terminologies. And with this we will conclude today's video.