Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the standard module structure. Now at this stage we have been experimenting with the basic concepts of module and its related features. Now, since we were new to modules, the overall structure that we had kept was very simple and the main aim was to understand the concept. We were not really following the best practices and so on. However, after you have understood the basics of modules, it is also important to know the best practices that you should follow whenever you are working with the production environments or with any organization. And in today's video, this is precisely what we are planning to explore. Now, generally, whenever you create a module for any organization, it is important that you follow a standard module structure. And this standard module structure again is defined by the HashiCorp in terms of the recommendation that you must follow specifically for the reusable module. Now again, it is not a must follow, but it is a should follow. So when we discuss about the standard module structure here, a minimal recommended module structure looks something similar to this. Where you have a Readme file, you have a main.tf, you have a Variables.tf and you have the outputs.tf. So this is a very minimal module structure that you should be following. Again, depending upon the requirements, the number of files can also increase. Now generally what I recommend is if you want to really understand what is the best practices or the module structure, go ahead and explore some of the popular modules that are available in the market to understand on how things are designed. In fact, let's also quickly look into it. So generally from the Terraform registry, if you explore the modules we'll be looking into few modules here. So let's look into some of the partner modules here. Let's open this up which is the GCE. I'll open this and we'll look into the GitHub source code. Now if you look into the source code here. There are multiple files and folders here, but there are a few important part that you will see. You will have a Main.tf. You have the outputs.tf, you have the Variables.tf and the most important you have the README.md file. Now what does the README.md file contain? It contains the basic documentation around the module, so that anyone who is using the module can go ahead and look into the documentation here, and they can use this specific module effectively. Now for all the module or all of these files important, the answer is no. Again, it changes based on requirements. Here let's explore one more popular module. Again, this is not managed by the AWS partner but is extensively used. Let's look into this. So this is the one for Terraform AWS EC2 instance. Again it does not have too many files when compared to the earlier one. But here you see you have main.tf outputs.tf Variables.tf and README.md. And if we go a bit down again, the readme file is quite detailed and anyone who is going through this specific GitHub page will be able to find all of the important information on how they can make use of the module here. Now one more thing I just wanted to show you is that there are some additional files. For example, you have the versions.tf. What is present in the versions.tf. You have the required provider very similar to this. Even for this you have a file of versions.tf. And here you have bit of the licensing related information here. And again you have the required provider block. Now what is the benefit here. Now if all of the modules are following similar kind of structure it becomes very simple. Now here you have versions.tf. Now let's assume that for GCE module you don't have a versions.tf. You might have a file with a different name. So now as a user of modules, it becomes difficult for me because I have to open all of the files to understand where exactly the required providers block are. However, if the naming convention and if the file structure are similar, then as a user it becomes much more easier to go through as well. And this is the reason why it is important to have a standard module structure. As discussed, this is a bare minimum module structure that you should be following. And again you can expand it based on the requirements. So let's also take a simple use case where say you are a Terraform engineer working for an organization and you have been given a specific requirement for module creation. So a team wants to provision a infrastructure using Terraform. And the following architecture diagram depicts the desired outcome. So if you look into the architecture diagram what exactly does the team want. So on the left hand side you have the route 53 which is basically the DNS service in AWS. Then you have the VPC where you have a load balancer, you have the firewall, you have the EC2 instances. Here you have the database S3, and you also have the IAM service for the overall permission management. So whatever team that we were discussing in the first pointer wants to deploy this kind of an architecture. Now if you are working with Terraform, you have the aim to create the module associated with all of them so that in the later case, when there are other teams who wants to use some of the services, they can make use of the module as well. Now, when we discuss about overall planning of the module structure, what you will typically want is you want to build a collection of module to provision the infrastructure. So you will not build a single module that deploys the entire infrastructure. This is a big no no. You will build a collection of modules for each service. For example, you will build a module for the DNS service of route 53, a module for S3, a module for IAM, a module for database, and so on. So multiple set of submodules will be required. And this is the first important part that you should remember. And once you have the collection of modules, then the members of the team can make use of the module to provision the infrastructure. So if you look into the final output here, it would look something similar to this. So you have a dedicated module for IAM, a dedicated module for routing, a different module for networking, different module for database and so on. So when you have multiple set of modules here tomorrow, if a new team wants to just manage a specific part, say they just want to create a database. So instead of writing the entire database code from scratch, they can make use of this specific database module that you have created. And things will become much more easier. So this is one of the important best practices that you must follow, specifically whenever you are writing the modules for larger organization after you have scoped the entire requirements. So with this, we will conclude today's video.