Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to discuss about the basics of moved block. When we discuss about moving a specific configuration into a module. So with this let's get started. Now many times in organization you will come across scenarios where you have some long lived configurations that have been used to create a resource. And at a later stage you realize the advantages of module. And now you have decided that you should include and create all of the resources through module only. So for example, let's say that you have used this specific resource block to create a S3 bucket in AWS. Now this is a very simple configuration. And what has happened a S3 bucket is created. Now at a later stage, organization has realized the benefits of using module. So now what you want is this S3 bucket that got created. You want to manage it through a module and not through this specific configuration here. So you have some modules available for your organization. And now what you want this S3 bucket that has already been created through a previous configuration. You want to manage it through a module. So in order to achieve this move, block again proves to be very useful. So in today's video, we are going to understand on how we can use the move block between a long lived configuration and a module, and also some of the challenges that you might face specifically in this kind of infrastructure management. So with this, let's get started. Now for today's practical, we have a very simple file called as moved hyphen module.tf. Again the code is there in GitHub for you to reference. So what this specific code is doing. It is creating a S3 bucket with this specific name which is KP labs move module. Practical 007. In your case make sure to give a little different name here, because the names of S3 across AWS accounts are unique. All right. So let's go ahead and save this. And we'll quickly create a S3 bucket post which will be discussing about the move block Now from our KP Labs Terraform folder. I'll quickly open up the terminal and we'll do a Terraform plan to ensure if everything is working fine and as expected, it is showing one to add. This seems good. Let's go ahead and do a Terraform apply with auto approve. So this should create a S3 bucket for us. That's great. Now just to verify let's go to the S3 console. And within S3 we'll just go ahead and search for KP labs moved module practical. So this is our S3 bucket here. Now just for testing in my desktop I'll just create a new file. I'll just call it as moved with the extension of txt. And I'll upload this specific file to our S3 bucket. Let's upload it. That's great. So currently this bucket has one file. Now, many times in smaller organizations, you will see they'll start with a very simple code for creating resources through Terraform. Now, after a few months, or maybe after a few years, when they have enough resources and enough maturity in Terraform, they might say that, hey, this is good. But now we want to start managing resources through Terraform modules as there are multiple benefits associated with them. So now what you want. You want to remove this specific block and use the S3 module and manage the resource through that. So let's go ahead and look into how we can achieve that. Now for today's practical, we are going to make use of some of the popular modules associated with S3, which are available in Terraform registry. Let's quickly open this up so you can just look into the module managed by and verify if the author is the same. I'll also be adding the link to this in our GitHub page so that it's much more easier. Now, if you'll quickly open the source code in GitHub, This is how it looks like. If you quickly go down, you see there are multiple contributors. And this is relatively a very mature module. And I have seen many organizations make use of this. So what we want. We want this specific S3 bucket to be managed through the module that we have just explored. Now associated with this module there is already a code to provision the infra through this. So let's copy this and I'll add it over here a very simple code now from the CLI. First thing that we need to do is terraform init. Since we have specified the module it will go ahead and download it here. Once you have done that when you do a Terraform plan let's look into the output here. So output says two to add. What are the things that it is adding here. First it is creating a S3 bucket. And second it is creating this public access block. So these are the settings that it is adding as part of the S3 bucket. In fact you can also see this as part of module code. So if you look into the module code let's go to the Main.tf. So the first part that it is creating is this S3 bucket. All right. So if you see AWS S3 bucket this similar you'll be able to find AWS S3 bucket. This this is first part. Second part is the AWS S3 bucket public access block. Let's copy this. And if you look into the module this is the resource block that it is using to create. Now whenever you want to migrate your long lived configuration to a specific module, you can make use of move block. So what you can do you can specify the move. And similar to the main configuration, you have the from and you have the two. Now in the from you have to specify the old address. Let's do this. I'll specify it here dot moved and in the two block we have to specify the newer resource address. So in this case since it is a module you can specify this module dot S3 hyphen bucket. This is one part. Note that this is still incomplete. You have to specify the exact address. However, I just wanted to show you what would happen if you just specify something similar to this. I'll save this now if I'll clear the screen when I do a terraform plan here. You see you got an error stating from and to address must either both refer to resource or both refer to modules and the error is invalid. Moved address. Now in this specific module. Also there are multiple resources that are available. For example this specific module has multiple resources. If you see. Let's go a bit up here. Again this is a very lengthy module. You have this resource block. You have this resource block here you have this resource block and this is the reason why, after you have specified this module, you also have to specify which resource block to be addressed here. So what you would like you have to specify this. Let's copy this dot this. All right. So now it is much more specific that inside this module this is the resource block that needs to be targeted. Now before we do a Terraform plan. Now since we are moving this let's go ahead and remove this specific block. Or you can just comment it out. Just for simplicity I'll save this. So ideally what you would like is when you do a Terraform plan, no new resource associated with S3 bucket should be created here. So from the CLI let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan here. And still you see it states two to add. Now one of the things that it is adding here is the S3 bucket. Now S3 bucket is already created. So you do not really want to create an S3 bucket here. So this is something that needs to be improved upon. And it is also showing one to destroy. So our original S3 bucket it is planning to destroy which we do not want. So something is wrong in this code. Now one of the easiest way that you can find this address associated with the two is from the Terraform plan. So whenever you see it tries to create a plan, it will show you the exact address. Module dot s3 bucket aws s3 bucket dot dis zero. So you can simply copy this and you can move it over here. All right. So this is one of the easiest way. One more thing that you will see is that whenever we had created a S3 bucket we had explicitly specified a bucket name. However, in the module we have not really specified a bucket name, so we have to specify it. So if you look into the module code. So the bucket is specified using var dot bucket. So what you can do you can just simply copy this and add it as part of this code. I'll save this. Now let's go ahead and do a Terraform plan. And this time you see there is no destroy. This is very important. There is nothing to destroy. There is one to add. What is it adding? Is it adding a new S3 bucket? And the answer is no. So it is adding some configuration as part of the S3 bucket, for example, block public ACLs and so on. So these are some of the settings that are applied at a S3 bucket level which it is adding. So depending upon the module that you are using. Now since we are using a readymade module from the internet, there will be some things that might differ. For example, it might try to add few settings as part of your S3 bucket. However, as long as your main resource is not really getting modified extensively, you can review the settings. If things are good, you can go ahead and do a Terraform apply. However, if you even do not really want this now, generally what happens is many organizations have their own custom modules as part of them. So in those modules you can go ahead and create configurations accordingly so that things do not really get modified. In case if you would not like. So just for simplicity, I'll also do a Terraform apply auto approve so it will apply certain configuration settings as part of the bucket which are good. For example block public ACL. So by default this setting should be set once. Then the creation is completed. You can verify the S3 bucket. Just refresh if everything is present. And yes you have the file available here. All right. So I hope with this at an overview you understood on how you can move a specific configuration to a module. Now again, note that depending upon the module that you use, there might be certain changes that you might have to make. Specifically, if you are using a readymade module from the public Terraform registry. If you have your own Terraform module for organization, things will become much more simpler. But many times public modules will have lot of configurations which you might have not set at the initial resource creation. So when you use the module, module will try to add those configuration as part of the resource that it is managing, similar to what we just saw as part of today's video. So based on module to module some workflow steps might differ. But the high level step is something that we have discussed here. Now before we conclude let's go ahead and just do a Terraform plan to ensure that everything is working. And it is not showing any more changes here. And yes, no changes in the infrastructure. And one last thing, let's go ahead and delete this resource also using the module so that we test end to end workflow. So once the file is deleted you can just do a Terraform destroy with auto approve. And create the destroy is now completed. Great. So with this we will conclude today's video.